Polygraph
Accountable Byzantine Agreement
Pierre Civit

Seth Gilbert

Vincent Gramoli

University of Sydney
Sydney, Australia
pierrecivit@gmail.com

NUS
Singapore, Singapore
seth.gilbert@comp.nus.edu.sg

University of Sydney
Sydney, Australia
vincent.gramoli@sydney.edu.au

ABSTRACT

real world, we can prevent bad blockchain behavior: if the
attacker has strictly less than 1/3 of the network under their
control then consensus is reached, otherwise we record sufficient information to catch the third of the network that is
criminal and take remedial actions. Accountability has been
increasingly discussed as a desirable property in blockchains
to slash stake of cheating peers [9, 32]. The problem is to
avoid suspecting correct peers while provably identifying
cheating ones.

In this paper, we introduce Polygraph, the first accountable
Byzantine consensus algorithm. If among 𝑛 users 𝑡 < 𝑛/3 are
malicious then it ensures consensus; otherwise (if 𝑡 ≥ 𝑛/3),
it eventually detects malicious users that cause disagreement. Polygraph is appealing for blockchain applications as
it allows them to totally order blocks in a chain whenever
possible, hence avoiding forks and double spending and, otherwise, to punish (e.g., via slashing) at least 𝑛/3 malicious
users when a fork occurs. This problem is more difficult
than perhaps it first appears. One could try identifying malicious senders by extending classic Byzantine consensus
algorithms to piggyback signed messages. We show however
that to achieve accountability the resulting algorithms would
then need to exchange Ω(𝜅 2 · 𝑛 5 ) bits, where 𝜅 is the security
parameter of the signature scheme. By contrast, Polygraph
has communication complexity 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 4 ). Finally, we implement Polygraph in a blockchain and compare it to the Red
Belly Blockchain to show that it commits more than 10,000
Bitcoin-like transactions per second when deployed on 80
geodistributed machines.

1

Why is it a hard problem? As far as we know, there is
no generic way of getting definitive evidence of the guilt
of processes (or nodes) for all systems. Previous work introduced a method to transform any distributed system into
one that is accountable but it only guarantees that faulty
processes will be suspected forever if the network is partially synchronous [18]. We thus narrow down the problem
to accountable Byzantine agreement, specifically reaching
agreement when there are fewer than 𝑛/3 Byzantine participants or detecting at least 𝑛/3 Byzantine participants in case
of a disagreement. Most partially synchronous Byzantine
consensus protocols, like PBFT [11], Tendermint [8] or HotStuff [35], already collect forms of cryptographic evidence
like signatures or certificates to guarantee agreement upon
a decision. So one might think of simply recording the quorum certificates containing honest processes signatures that
attest the decision to detect 𝑛/3 Byzantine processes in case
of disagreement. In fact, we show that justifications should
contain at least Ω(𝜅 · 𝑛 2 ) bits (where 𝜅 is the security parameter of the signature scheme) for a simple piggybacking
extension to make any of these algorithms accountable (see
Theorem 4.3).

INTRODUCTION

Over the last several years we have seen a boom in the development of new Byzantine agreement protocols, in large
part driven by the excitement over blockchains and cryptocurrencies. Unfortunately, Byzantine agreement protocols
have some inherent limitations: it is impossible to ensure
correct operation when more than 1/3 of the processing
power in the system is controlled by a single malicious party,
unless the network can guarantee perfect synchrony in communication. At first, one might hope to relax the liveness
guarantees, while always ensuring safety. Alas, in a partially
synchronous network, this type of guarantee is impossible.
If the adversary controls more than 1/3 of the computing
power, it can always force disagreement.

Results. In this paper, we propose Polygraph, the first accountable Byzantine agreement solution. The idea is to offer
accountability guarantees to the participants of the service.
Intuitively, one cannot hold 𝑛 servers accountable to separate clients (distinct from the servers) that interact with
the blockchain when more than 𝑡 ≥ 2𝑛/3 of the servers
are Byzantine. The reason is that the coalition is sufficiently
large to rewrite the blockchain and prevent a client from distinguishing the response of honest servers from the response
of malicious servers [13]. This was confirmed by concurrent

Accountability. What if, instead of preventing bad behavior
by a party that controls too much power, we guarantee accountability, i.e., we can provide irrefutable evidence of the
bad behavior and the identifier of the perpetrator of those
illegal actions? Much in the way we prevent crime in the
1

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Algorithm Msgs Bits

depicted in Table 1 because Polygraph simply needs to exchange signed messages received within at most the two
latest previous asynchronous rounds. In particular, both the
binary and the multivalue versions of Polygraph share the
same asymptotic complexity as PBFT, which does not offer accountability. Second, we evaluate the performance of
Polygraph in a blockchain application that thus becomes
accountable. We deploy this blockchain application on 80
machines across continents and compare its performance to
the Red Belly Blockchain [15]. Even though it presents some
overheads compared to this non-accountable baseline, our
accountable blockchain still exceeds 10,000 TPS at 80 nodes.
This high performance can be attributed to the reasonable
complexity of the multivalue variant of Polygraph depicted
in Table 1.

Account.

PBFT [11] 𝑂(𝑛 3 ) 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 4 )
Tendermint [7] 𝑂(𝑛 3 ) 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 3 )
HotStuff [35] 𝑂(𝑛 2 ) 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 2 )
HotStuff w/o thres. sig. [21] 𝑂(𝑛 2 ) 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 3 )
DBFT binary consensus [14] 𝑂(𝑛 3 ) 𝑂(𝑛 3 )
DBFT multivalue consensus [14] 𝑂(𝑛 4 ) 𝑂(𝑛 4 )

✗
✗
✗
✗
✗
✗

Polygraph (Sect. 5) 𝑂(𝑛 3 ) 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 4 )
Naive Multiv. Polygraph (App. C) 𝑂(𝑛 4 ) 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 5 )
Multivalue Polygraph (App. D) 𝑂(𝑛 4 ) 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 4 )

✓
✓
✓

Table 1: Differences in communication complexities after global stabilization time between Polygraph and non-accountable Byzantine consensus algorithms, where 𝑛 is the number of consensus participants and 𝜅 is the security parameter of the corresponding encryption scheme.

Roadmap. The background is given in Section 2. The model
and the accountable Byzantine consensus problem are presented in Section 3, and impossibility results are given in
Section 4. Section 5 describes the Polygraph protocol, which
solves the accountable binary Byzantine consensus problem. Section 6 analyses empirically the Polygraph protocol
in a geodistributed blockchain. blockchain and Section 7
concludes.
An Appendix is left to the discretion of the reader. Appendix A presents the proof of the impossibility result, Appendix B presents the proof of correctness of the Polygraph protocol, Appendix C presents the multivalue Polygraph protocol that supports arbitrary values. Appendix D presents some
optimizations to reduce the complexity of the multivalue
Polygraph protocol. Appendix E discusses the applications
of the Polygraph protocol to blockchain. Finally, Appendix F
shows that a naive extension of classic blockchain consensus
protocols, including PBFT, HotStuff and Tendermint, cannot
make them accountable.

research to ours that showed it is impossible to hold servers
accountable to separate clients for any number of Byzantine
participants [33].
Our solution, called Polygraph, ensures that in a symmetric system where all 𝑛 participants are peers that take part as
clients and servers in the accountable Byzantine consensus,
then accountability is ensured for any number 𝑡 ≤ 𝑛 of
Byzantine participants. Note that the problem is trivial
when 𝑡 > 𝑛 − 2 as no disagreement among correct processes
is possible, but otherwise Polygraph guarantees all honest
participants undeniably detect at least 𝑛/3 Byzantine participants responsible for disagreement. Because it is resilient
to any number of failures, Polygraph is particularly interesting for peer-to-peer blockchain networks. In particular, it
allows to hold all peers accountable to other peers, which is
appealing for consortium blockchains and shard chains [17].
We also show that Polygraph is optimal in that stronger
forms of accountability are impossible. For example, we cannot guarantee agreement when 𝑡 > 𝑛/3, even if we are
willing to tolerate a failure of liveness (Theorem 4.1); and
processes cannot detect even one guilty participant within a
fixed time limit (e.g., prior to decision), since (intuitively) that
would enable processes to determine guilt before deciding in
a way that leads to disagreement. Nor can we guarantee detection of more than 𝑛/3 malicious users, since it takes only
𝑛/3 malicious users to cause disagreement and additional
malicious users could simply stay mute to not be detected.
Finally, we show that Polygraph is efficient. First, its communication complexity is 𝑂(𝜅 ·𝑛 4 ) bits, where 𝑛 is the number
of participants and 𝜅 is the security parameter of its signature
scheme. This complexity is comparable to the communication complexity of state-of-the-art consensus algorithms as

2

BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK

In this section, we review existing work on accountability in
distributed systems.

2.1

PeerReview

Haeberlen, Kuznetsov, and Druschel [18] pioneered the idea
of accountability in distributed systems. They developed a
system called PeerReview that implemented accountability
as an add-on feature for any distributed system. Each process in the system records messages in tamper-evident logs;
an authenticator can challenge a process, retrieve its logs,
and simulate the original protocol to ensure that the process
behaved correctly. They show that in doing so, you can always identify at least one malicious process (if some process
acts in a detectably malicious way). Their technique is quite
2

Polygraph

powerful, given its general applicability which can be used
in any (deterministic) distributed system!
The issue has to do with (partial) synchrony. The PeerReview approach is challenge-based: to prove misbehavior,
an auditor must receive a response from the malicious process. If no response is received, the auditor cannot determine
whether the process is malicious, or whether the network
has not yet stabilized. It follows that the malicious coalition
will only be suspected forever but not proved guilty. There is
no fixed point at which the auditor can be completely certain
that the sender is malicious; the auditor may never have definitive proof that the process is malicious; it always might
just be poor network performance. The Polygraph Protocol,
by contrast, produces a concrete proof of malicious behavior
that is completely under the control of the honest processes.

2.2

Holding 𝑛 servers accountable to separate clients in the Tendermint consensus algorithm [4, 8] as well as HotStuff [35]
was shown possible when 𝑡 < 2𝑛/3 in recent research [33]
but could not be achieved when 𝑡 ≥ 2𝑛/3, which confirms
our observations (Appendix E).

2.3

Earlier work on accountability

Even before PeerReview, others had suggested the idea of accountability in distributed systems as an alternate approach
to security (see, e.g., [26, 36, 37]). Yumerefendi and Chase [37]
developed an accountable system for network storage, and
Michalakis et al. [30] developed an accountable peer-to-peer
content distribution network. The idea of accountability appeared less explicit in many earlier systems. For example,
Aiyer et al. [3] proposed the BAR model for distributed systems, which relied on incentives to ensure good behavior;
one key idea was in detecting and punishing bad behaviors. Finally, Intrusion Detection Systems (e.g., [16, 22, 28]
provided heuristics and techniques for detecting malicious
behaviors in a variety of different systems.

Accountable blockchains

Recently, accountability has been an important goal in “proofof-stake” blockchains, where users that violate the protocol
can be punished by confiscating their deposited stake.
Buterin and Griffith [9] have proposed a blockchain protocol, Casper, that provides this type of accountability guarantee. Validators try to agree on (or “finalize”) a branch of
𝑘 hundreds of consecutive blocks, by gathering signatures
for this branch or “link” from validators jointly owning at
least 2𝑛/3 of the deposited stake. If a validator signs multiple links at the same height, Casper uses its signatures as
proofs to slash its deposited stake. This is very similar in intent to Polygraph’s notion of identifying 𝑛/3 malicious users
when there is disagreement. Like most blockchain protocols, however, Casper implicitly assumes some synchronous
underlying (overlay) network and allows the blockchain to
fork into a tree until some branch is finalized. To guarantee
“plausible liveness” or that Casper does not block when not
enough signatures are collected to finalize a link, validators
are always allowed to sign links that overlap but extend links
they already signed. However, this does not guarantee that
consensus terminates.
The longlasting blockchain [32] builds upon our companion technical report [13] to recover from forks by excluding guilty participants and compensating transient losses
with the deposit of guilty participants. It recovers from 𝑓 =
⌈2𝑛/3⌉ − 1 failures as long as there are less than min(𝑛/3, 𝑛 −
𝑓 ) processes experiencing benign (e.g., crash) failures. Accountability in the context of blockchain fairness was raised
by Herlihy and Moir in a keynote address [20], and the
idea of “accountable Byzantine fault tolerance” has been
discussed [7]. The goal in the latter case is to suggest a
broadcast after the consensus in order to detect a fault by
matching pre-vote and pre-commit messages of the same
validator in Tendermint, but the algorithm is not detailed.

2.4

Failure detectors

There is a connection between accountability and failure detectors. A failure detector is designed to provide each process
in the system with some advice, typically a list of processes
that are faulty in some manner. However, failure detectors
tend to have a different set of goals. They are used during an
execution to help make progress, while accountability is usually about what can be determined post hoc after a problem
occurs. They provide advice to a process, rather than proofs
of culpability that can be shared. Most of the work in this
area has focused on detecting crash failures (see, e.g., [12]).
There has been some interesting work extending this idea
to detecting Byzantine failures [18, 19, 23, 28]. Malkhi and
Reiter [28] introduced the concept of an unreliable Byzantine failure detector that could detect quiet processes, i.e.,
those that did not send a message when they were supposed
to. They showed that this was sufficient to solve Byzantine
Agreement.
Kihlstrom, Moser, and Melliar-Smith [23] continue this
direction, considering failures of both omission and commission. Of note, they define the idea of a mutant message, i.e., a
message that was received by multiple processes and claimed
to be identical (e.g., had the same header), but in fact was not.
The Polygraph Protocol is designed so that only malicious
users sending a mutant message can cause disagreement. In
fact, the main task of accountability in this paper is identifying processes that were supposed to broadcast a single
message to everyone and instead sent different messages to
different processes.
3

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Maziéres and Shasha propose SUNDR [29] that detects
Byzantine behaviors in a network file system if all clients
are honest and can communicate directly. Polygraph clients
request multiple signatures from servers so that they do not
need to be honest. Li and Maziéres [27] improves on SUNDR
with BFT2F, a weakly consistent protocol when the number
of failures is 𝑛/3 ≤ 𝑡 < 2𝑛/3 and its BFTx variant that copes
with more than 2𝑛/3 failures but does not guarantee liveness
even with less than 𝑡 failures.

3

Byzantine users, the probability that the verification algorithm returns a set containing 𝑝 𝑗 is negligible. In practice,
this will reduce to the non-forgeability of signatures.)
Accountable Byzantine agreement. The problem of Byzantine Agreement, first introduced by Pease, Shostak, and Lamport [25], assumes that each process begins with a binary
input, i.e., either a 0 or a 1, outputs a decision, and requires
three properties: agreement, validity, and termination.
We define the Accountable Byzantine Agreement problem
in a similar way, with the additional requirement that there
exists a verification algorithm that can identify at least 𝑡 0 + 1
Byzantine users whenever there is disagreement. (Recall that
𝑡 0 = ⌈ 𝑛3 ⌉ − 1.) More precisely:

MODEL AND PROBLEM

We first define the problem in the context of a traditional
distributed computing setting. (We later discuss applications
to blockchains.)

Definition 3.1 (Accountable Byzantine Agreement). We say
that an algorithm solves Accountable Byzantine Agreement
if each process takes an input value, possibly produces a
decision, and satisfies the following properties:
• Agreement: If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , then every honest process that
decides outputs the same decision value.
• Validity: If all processes are honest and begin with the
same value, then that is the only decision value.
• Termination: If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , every honest process eventually
outputs a decision value.
• Accountability: There exists a verification algorithm
𝑉 such that: if two honest processes output disagreeing decision values, then eventually for every honest
process 𝑝 𝑗 , for every state 𝑠 𝑗 reached by 𝑝 𝑗 from that
point onwards, the verification 𝑉 (𝑠 𝑗 ) outputs a guilty
set of size at least 𝑡 0 + 1.

System. We consider 𝑛 processes. A subset 𝐶 of the processes
are honest, i.e., always follow the protocol; the remaining
𝑡 < 𝑛 are Byzantine, i.e., may maliciously violate the protocol,
under the control of a dynamic adversary that fixes the set
of Byzantine processes for the duration of each round. We
define 𝑡 0 = max(𝑡 ∈ N0 : 𝑡 < 𝑛/3), i.e., 𝑡 0 = ⌈ 𝑛3 ⌉ − 1, a useful
threshold on the number of Byzantine behaviors.
Processes execute one step at a time and are asynchronous, proceeding at their own arbitrary, unknown speed. We
assume local computation time is zero, as it is negligible with
respect to message delays.
We assume that there is an idealized PKI (public-key infrastructure) so that each process has a public/private key
pair that it can use to sign messages and to verify signatures.
Partial synchrony. We consider a partially synchronous
network. During some intervals of time, messages are delivered in a reliable and timely fashion, while in other intervals
of time messages may be arbitrarily delayed. More specifically, we assume that there is some time 𝜏GST known as the
global stabilization time, unknown to the processes, such
that any message sent after time 𝜏GST will be delivered with
latency at most 𝑑. We say that an event occurs eventually
if there exists an unknown but finite time when the event
occurs. (Note that we tolerate that messages be dropped before 𝜏GST as long as messages are sent infinitely often.) For
the sake of simplicity in the presentation, we write “receive
𝑘 messages” to explain “receive messages from 𝑘 distinct
processes”.

Our validity definition is sometimes called weak validity [31], but Lemma B.8 shows that our accountable binary
Byzantine consensus protocol ensures even a stronger validity property (if 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and an honest process decides 𝑣, then
some honest process proposed 𝑣).

4

IMPOSSIBILITY RESULTS

It may seem that accountability can be obtained by always
guaranteeing agreement but failing to terminate as soon
as 𝑡 ≥ 𝑛/3, by checking evidence before deciding, or by
piggybacking a subquadratic number of bits as justifications
in classic consensus algorithms. In this section, we show that
none of these ideas lead to accountability.

4.1

Verification algorithm. A verification algorithm 𝑉 takes
as input the state of a process and returns a set 𝐺 of undeniable guilty processes, that is, every process-id of 𝐺 is tagged
with an unforgeable proof of culpability. (More formally, this
means that for every computationally bounded adversary,
for every execution in which a process 𝑝 𝑗 is honest, for every
state 𝑠 generated during the execution or constructed by

Avoiding disagreement when 𝑡 ≥ 𝑛/3 is
impossible

A couple of natural questions arise regarding accountable
algorithms: Can we design an algorithm that always guarantees agreement, and simply fails to terminate if there are too
many Byzantine users? If so, we would trivially get accountability! Can we design an algorithm that provides earlier
4

Polygraph

Two local variables per process, preparation and decision,
have values that relate with each other such that for a process 𝑗 to have a decision, 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 processes, including 𝑗 itself,
must have had the same value as a preparation. During view
changes, if 𝑡 < 𝑡 0 , then a preparation implies a propagation
of a value to the leader within messages announcing the new
view.

evidence of Byzantine behavior, even before the decision is
possible? If so, we could provide stronger guarantees than
are provided in this paper. Alas, neither is possible. The details of the following theorems are deferred to Appendix A
(and follow from standard partitioning arguments).
Theorem 4.1. In a partially synchronous system, no algorithm solves both the Byzantine consensus problem when
𝑡 < 𝑛/3 and the agreement and validity of the Byzantine
consensus problem when 𝑡 > 𝑡 0 .

(2) HotStuff, PBFT and Tendermint belong to L. By examination of the code of HotStuff, PBFT and Tendermint, we
can see that they all belong to L. HotStuff’s leader, PBFT’s
primary and Tendermint’s proposer of an epoch all aim at
proposing a suggestion within the view they coordinate. A
decision value always requires the same preparation value
from 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct processes. These two values correspond
to HotStuff’s commitQC and prepareQC, to Tendermint’s
decision and validValue, and to PBFT’s commit and prepare.
In all these three consensus algorithms, a suggestion value in
view 𝑣 + 1 must be proposed by its leader and correspond to
a preparation motivated by 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 messages sent in view 𝑣.

We say that a verification algorithm 𝑉 is swift if it guarantee the following: assume 𝑝𝑖 has already decided some value
𝑣, and that 𝑝 𝑗 is in a state 𝑠 wherein it will decide 𝑤 ≠ 𝑣 in
its next step; then 𝑉 (𝑠) ≠ ∅. Notice that a swift verification
algorithm may only detect one Byzantine process (i.e., it is
not sufficient evidence for 𝑝 𝑗 to decide never to decide).
Theorem 4.2. Consider an algorithm that solves consensus
when 𝑡 < 𝑛/3. There is no swift verification algorithm when
𝑡 > 𝑡0 .

4.2

(3) Extensions of a PBFT-like algorithm. The 𝑡 0 -bounded
extension of a PBFT-like consensus algorithm 𝐴 is an algorithm 𝐴¯ like 𝐴 except that it piggybacks a justification within
all its new-view and suggestion messages at each view 𝑣𝑘 = 𝑘.
This justification consists of a chain of the past alternating
sets Sugg𝑥 of suggestion messages sent by the leader ℓ𝑣𝑥 of
view 𝑣 𝑥 = 𝑥 and sets NV 𝑥 of new-view messages sent by
processes 𝜙 𝑥 for view 𝑣 𝑥 . Each piggybacked chain sent in
view 𝑣𝑘 has a bounded depth 𝑡 0 − 1 = Θ(𝑛), which means that
it contains a (possibly empty) suffix of this sequence of sets:
NV 𝑘−(𝑡0 −1), Sugg𝑘−(𝑡0 −2), NV 𝑘−(𝑡0 −2), · · · , Sugg𝑘−1 , NV 𝑘−1 .

Classic PBFT-like algorithms

It is interesting to see that most partially synchronous consensus algorithms already collect forms of cryptographic evidence like signatures or certificates to guarantee agreement
upon decision. While this is a characteristic of PBFT [11], this
is the case of modern algorithms that build upon it including
Tendermint [8] and HotStuff [35]. One could naturally be
tempted to reuse these signatures and certificates to piggyback practical justifications in the existing messages of the
original consensus algorithms to turn them into accountable consensus algorithms. Although threshold signatures
do not convey enough information to identify which process
is guilty, signatures are generally sufficient. We show below
that, unfortunately, this transformation cannot work.
The intuition of the proof is split in the four following
steps while the full proof is deferred to our technical report.
First, we define the class of ‘classic’ or PBFT-like consensus algorithms and denote it L. Second, we show that HotStuff [35], PBFT [11] and Tendermint [4] belong to this class
L. (As we need to remove threshold signatures, we adopt
the version of HotStuff without threshold signatures [21].)
Third, we define a practical extension of PBFT-like consensus algorithms that piggybacks messages. By ‘practical’ we
mean that piggybacked messages have a bounded staleness
to prevent the justification communication to be superlinear
(e.g., quadratic) in 𝑛. Finally, we prove that there exist executions leading to disagreement with different sets of Byzantine
processes that correct processes cannot distinguish.

Theorem 4.3. HotStuff, PBFT and Tendermint as well as
all their 𝑡 0 -bounded extensions are not accountable.
(4) Intuition of the proof. For the proof we consider two
executions 𝑒 1 and 𝑒 2 , in which process 𝑖 decides 𝑠𝑖 at view
𝑣𝑖 while process 𝑗 decides 𝑠 𝑗 ≠ 𝑠𝑖 at view 𝑣 𝑗 >> 𝑣𝑖 . Process
𝑖’s decision implies preparation of 𝑠𝑖 by a quorum 𝑄𝑖 at
view 𝑣𝑖 . In a later view numbered 𝑣𝑧 , a set 𝜙 of processes
send a set 𝑁𝑉 𝑣𝑧 −1 of new-view messages to the leader
ℓ𝑣𝑧 of this view. A set 𝐵 = 𝜙 ∩ 𝑄𝑖 of at least 𝑡 0 + 1 guilty
processes did not propagate their preparation of 𝑠𝑖 and
provoked the disagreement. The view 𝑣𝑧 is the first link of
a chain of successive views 𝜒 = [𝑣𝑧 , 𝑣𝑧 + 1, . . . , 𝑣𝑧 + 𝑘 − 1]
where the leaders of views 𝜒 are in 𝑃, |𝑃 | ≤ 𝑡 0 − 1. At view
𝑣𝑧 + 𝑘, process 𝑗 prepares 𝑠 𝑗 and eventually decides 𝑠 𝑗 at
view 𝑣 𝑗 ≥ 𝑣𝑧 + 𝑘. When 𝑖 and 𝑗 detect the disagreement,
they can neither distinguish 𝑒 1 from 𝑒 2 nor identify the
senders 𝜙 of 𝑁𝑉 𝑣𝑧 −1 . Process 𝑗 cannot wait without deciding
because we can construct an execution 𝑒 0 indistinguishable
by 𝑗 from 𝑒 1 with less than 𝑡 0 Byzantine processes, where

(1) Class L of PBFT-like algorithms. L contains algorithms that all rely on a leader, which rotates in a round-robin
fashion across views and proposes a suggestion in its view.
5

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

the leaders 𝑃 (and 𝑖) of the chain 𝜒 appear mute to 𝑗 and
where 𝑗 must decide. Leaders of 𝑃 prepare 𝑠 𝑗 as 𝑗 ignores
the decision 𝑠𝑖 . After the disagreement, 𝑃 does not reveal
𝑁𝑉 𝑣𝑧 −1 that is necessary to detect the guilty processes. This
argument holds as long as 𝑘 < 𝑡 0 . The full proof is deferred
to Appendix F.

ledger or has an improperly formed ledger is discarded. (See
the discussion below regarding ledgers.)

5.1

The basic protocol operates in two phases, after which a possible decision is taken. Each process maintains an estimate.
In the first phase, each process broadcasts its estimate using
a reliable broadcast service, bv-broadcast (discussed below),
as introduced previously [1]. The protocol uses a rotating
coordinator; whoever is the assigned coordinator for a round
broadcasts its estimate with a special designation.
All processes then wait until they receive at least one
message, and until a timer expires. (The timeout is increased
with each iteration, so that eventually once the network
stabilizes it is long enough.) If a process receives a message
from the coordinator, then it chooses the coordinator’s value
to “echo”, i.e., to rebroadcast to everyone in the second phase.
Otherwise, it simply echoes all the messages received in the
first phase.
At this point, each process 𝑝𝑖 waits until it receives enough
compatible ECHO messages. Specifically, it waits to receive
at least (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) messages sent by distinct processes where
every value in those messages was also received by 𝑝𝑖 in
the first phase. In this case, it adopts the collection of values
in those (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) messages as its candidate set. In fact, if a
process 𝑝𝑖 receives a set of (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) messages that all contain
exactly the coordinator’s value, then it chooses only that
value as the candidate value.
Finally, the processes try to come to a decision. If process
𝑝𝑖 has only one candidate value 𝑣, then 𝑝𝑖 adopts that value
𝑣 as its estimate. In that case, it can decide 𝑣 if it matches the
parity of the round, i.e., if 𝑣 = 𝑟𝑖 mod 2. Otherwise, if 𝑝𝑖 has
more than one candidate value, then it adopts as its estimate
𝑟𝑖 mod 2, the parity of the round.
To see that this ensures agreement (when 𝑡 < 𝑛/3), consider a round in which some process 𝑝𝑖 decides value 𝑣 = 𝑟𝑖
mod 2. Since 𝑝𝑖 receives (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) echo messages containing
only the value 𝑣, we know that every honest process must
have value 𝑣 in every possible set of (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) echo messages,
and hence every honest process included 𝑣 in its candidate
set. Every honest process that only had 𝑣 as a candidate
also decided 𝑣. The remaining honest processes must have
adopted 𝑣 = 𝑟𝑖 mod 2 as their estimate when they adopted
the parity bit of the round. And if all the honest processes
begin a round 𝑟 with estimate 𝑣, then that is the only possible
decision due to the reliable broadcast bv-broadcast in Phase
1 (see below) and all honest processes decide at round 𝑟 + 2
or earlier (regardless of whether 𝜏𝐺𝑆𝑇 is reached).
Processes always continue to make progress, if 𝑡 < 𝑛/3.
Termination is a consequence of the coordinator: eventually,
after GST when the network stabilizes, there is a round where

This result (Theorem 4.3) simply shows that piggybacking 𝑡 0 -bounded justifications is insufficient to make PBFTlike algorithms accountable, however, it does not mean that
they cannot be transformed into an accountable algorithm.
First, one could probably make PBFT-like algorithms accountable with a longer justification, exchanging Ω(𝜅 · 𝑛 2 ) times
more bits, where 𝜅 is the security parameter of the signature
scheme. This new extension would result in an accountable version of Tendermint, HotStuff and PBFT requiring
between Ω(𝜅 2 · 𝑛 5 ) and Ω(𝜅 2 · 𝑛 6 ) bits. Second, transforming
any of these algorithms into Polygraph (Section 5) is a way
of obtaining accountability with a lower complexity than
the previous extension. Such a transformation would however be non-trivial because Polygraph relies on DBFT that
differs from PBFT-like algorithms in various ways: every
process participating in DBFT can propose a value, DBFT is
signature-free and there is no view change in DBFT as there
is no need to recover from a failed leader.

5

Protocol overview

POLYGRAPH, AN ACCOUNTABLE
BYZANTINE CONSENSUS ALGORITHM

In this section, we introduce Polygraph, a Byzantine agreement protocol that is accountable. We begin by giving the
basic outline of the protocol for ensuring agreement when
𝑡 < 𝑛/3. The protocol is derived from the DBFT consensus algorithm [14] that was proved correct using the ByMC model
checker [34] and that does not use the leader-based pattern
mentioned in the proof of Theorem 4.3. Then, we focus on
the key aspects that lead to accountability, specifically, the
“ledgers” and “certificates.” For the sake of simplicity, this
section tackles the binary agreement, however, Appendix C
generalizes this result to arbitrary values. In Appendix B, we
prove that the algorithm is correct.
As a notation, we indicate that a process 𝑝𝑖 sends a
message to every other process by: broadcast(TAG, 𝑚) →
messages, where TAG is the type of the message, 𝑚 is the
message content, and messages is the location to store any
messages received.
Throughout we assume that every message is signed by
the sender so the receiver can authenticate who sent it. (Any
improperly signed message is discarded.) Thus we can identify messages sent by distinct processes. Similarly, the protocol will at times include cryptographically signed “ledgers”
in messages; again, any message that is missing a required
6

Polygraph

Algorithm 1 The Polygraph Protocol
1: bin-propose(𝑣𝑖 ):
2: est𝑖 = 𝑣𝑖
3: r𝑖 = 0
4: timeout𝑖 = 0
5: ledgeri [0] = ∅
6: repeat:
7:
𝑟𝑖 ← 𝑟𝑖 + 1;
8:
timeout𝑖 ← timeout𝑖 + 1
9:
coord𝑖 ← ((𝑟𝑖 − 1) mod 𝑛) + 1
⊲ Phase 1:
10:
bv-broadcast(EST[𝑟𝑖 ], est𝑖 , ledger 𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 − 1], 𝑖, bin_values𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ])
11:
if 𝑖 = coord𝑖 then
12:
wait until (bin_valuesi [ri ] = {𝑤 })
13:
broadcast(COORD[𝑟𝑖 ], 𝑤) → messages𝑖

 increment the round number and the timeout
 rotate the coordinator
 binary value broadcast the current estimate
 coordinator rebroadcasts first value received
 bin_values stores messages received by binary value broadcast

StartTimer(timeout𝑖 )
wait until (bin_valuesi [ri ] ≠ ∅ ∧ timer 𝑖 expired)
⊲ Phase 2:
16:
if (COORD[𝑟𝑖 ], 𝑤) ∈ messages𝑖 from 𝑝 coord𝑖 ∧ 𝑤 ∈ bin_values𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ]) then
17:
aux𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ] ← {𝑤 }
18:
else aux𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ] ← bin_values𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ]
19:
signature𝑖 = sign(aux𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ], 𝑟𝑖 , 𝑖)
20:
broadcast(ECHO[𝑟𝑖 ], aux𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ], signature𝑖 ) → messages𝑖
21:
wait until valuesi = ComputeValues(messages𝑖 , bin_values𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ], aux𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ]) ≠ ∅
14:
15:

22:
23:
24:
25:
26:
27:
28:

⊲ Decision phase:
if values𝑖 = {𝑣 } then
est𝑖 ← 𝑣
if 𝑣 = (𝑟𝑖 mod 2) then
if no previous decision by 𝑝𝑖 then decide(𝑣)
else
𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑖 ← (𝑟𝑖 mod 2)
ledger 𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ] = ComputeJustification(valuesi , esti , ri , bin_valuesi [𝑟𝑖 ], messagesi )

 reset the timer
 favor the coordinator
 otherwise, use any value received

 sign the messages
 broadcast second phase message

 if there is only one value, then adopt it
 decide if value matches parity
 otherwise, adopt the current parity bit
 broadcast certificate

Rules:
(1) Every message that is not properly signed by the sender is discarded.
(2) Every message that is sent by bv-broadcast without a valid ledger after Round 1, except for messages containing value 1 in Round 2, are discarded.
(3) On first discovering a ledger ℓ that conflicts with a certificate, send ledger ℓ to all processes.

the coordinator is honest and the timeout is larger than the
message delay. At this point, every honest process receives
the coordinator’s Phase 1 message and echoes the coordinator’s value. In that round, every honest process adopts
the coordinator’s estimate, and the decision follows either
in that round or the next one (if 𝑡 < 𝑛/3).

5.2

Lemma B.2); (ii) every message delivered to an honest process
was broadcast by at least 𝑡 + 1 processes (see Lemma B.1).
These properties are ensured by a simple echo procedure.
When a process first tries to bv-broadcast a message, it broadcasts it to everyone. When a process receives 𝑡 0 + 1 copies of
a message, then it echoes it. When a process receives 𝑛 − 𝑡 0
copies of a message, then it delivers it. Notice that if a message is not bv-broadcast by at least 𝑡 0 + 1 processes, then it is
never echoed and hence never delivered. And if a message is
bv-broadcast by 𝑡 0 + 1 (honest) processes is echoed by every
honest process and hence delivered to every honest process.
This reliable broadcast routine ensures validity, since
a Phase 1 message that is echoed in Phase 2 must have
been delivered by bv-broadcast, and hence must have been
bv-broadcast by at least one honest process.

Binary value broadcast

The protocol relies in Phase 1 on a reliable broadcast routine
bv-broadcast proposed before [1], which is used to ensure
validity, i.e., any estimate adopted (and later decided) must
have been proposed by some honest process. Moreover, it
guarantees that if every honest process begins a round with
the same value, then that is the only possible estimate for
the remainder of the execution (if 𝑡 < 𝑛/3). Specifically,
bv-broadcast guarantees the following critical properties
while 𝑡 < 𝑛/3: (i) every message broadcast by 𝑡 0 + 1 honest
processes is eventually delivered to every honest process (see
7

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Algorithm 2 Helper Components
1: bv-broadcast(MSG, 𝑣𝑎𝑙, 𝑙𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑒𝑟, 𝑖, bin_values):
2: broadcast(BVAL, ⟨𝑣𝑎𝑙, 𝑙𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑒𝑟, 𝑖 ⟩) → 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑠
3: After round 2, and in round 1 if 𝑣𝑎𝑙 = 0, discard all messages received without a proper ledger.
4: upon receipt of (BVAL, ⟨𝑣, ·, 𝑗 ⟩)
5:
if (BVAL, ⟨𝑣, ·, ·⟩) received from (𝑡 0 + 1) distinct processes and (BVAL, ⟨𝑣, ·, ·⟩) not yet broadcast then
6:
Let ℓ be any non-empty ledger received in these messages.
7:
broadcast(BVAL, ⟨𝑣, ℓ, 𝑗 ⟩)
8:
if (BVAL, ⟨𝑣, ·, ·⟩) received from (2𝑡 0 + 1) distinct processes then
9:
Let ℓ be any non-empty ledger received in these messages.
10:
bin_values ← bin_values ∪ { ⟨𝑣, ℓ, 𝑗 ⟩ }
11: ComputeValues(messages, b_set, aux_set):
12: if ∃𝑆 ⊆ messages where the following conditions hold:
13:
(i) 𝑆 contains (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) distinct ECHO[𝑟𝑖 ] messages
14:
(ii) aux _set is equal to the set of values in 𝑆 .
15:
then return(aux _set )
16: if ∃𝑆 ⊆ messages where the following conditions hold:
17:
(i) 𝑆 contains (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) distinct ECHO[𝑟𝑖 ] messages
18:
(ii) Every value in 𝑆 is in b_set .
19:
then return(𝑉 = the set of values in 𝑆 )
20: else return( ∅)

Ledgers and certificates

 one of the received ledgers is enough
 deliver after receiving (2𝑡 0 + 1) copies

 compute ledger and broadcast certificate

 transmit certificate to everyone

is one exception: in Round 1, no ledger will be available to
justify value 1, so no ledger is generated in that case.)
The bv-broadcast ignores the ledger for the purpose of
deciding when to echo a message. When it echoes a message
𝑚, it chooses any arbitrary non-empty ledger that was attached to a message containing 𝑚 (if any such ledgers are
available). However, every message that does not contain a
valid ledger justifying its value is discarded, with the following exception: in Round 2, messages containing the value 1
can be delivered without a ledger (since no justification is
available for adopting the value 1 in Round 1).
Whenever there is only one candidate value received in
Phase 2, a process adopts that value and either: (i) decides and
constructs a certificate, or (ii) does not decide and constructs
a ledger. In both cases, this construction simply relies on
the signed messages received in Phase 2 of that round (and
hence is always feasible).
If a process decides a value 𝑣 in round 𝑟 > 1, or adopts
𝑣 because it is the parity bit for round 𝑟 > 1, then it also
constructs a ledger justifying why it adopted that value 𝑣.
It accomplishes this by examining all the bv-broadcast messages received for value 𝑣 and copying a round 𝑟 − 1 ledger.
Again, this is always possible since any message that is not
accompanied by a valid ledger is ignored. (The only possible
problem occurs in Round 2 where messages for value 1 are

In order to ensure accountability, we need to record enough
information during the execution to justify any decision that
is made, and hence to allow processes to determine accountability. For this purpose, we define two types of justifications:
ledgers and certificates. A ledger is designed to justify adopting a specific value. A certificate justifies a decision. We will
attach ledgers to certain messages; any message containing
an invalid or malformed ledger is discarded.
We define a ledger for round 𝑟 and value 𝑣 as follows. If
𝑣 ≠ 𝑟 mod 2, then the ledger consists of the (𝑛−𝑡 0 ) ECHO messages, each properly signed, received in Phase 2 of round 𝑟
that contain only value 𝑣 (and no other value). If 𝑣 = 𝑟 mod 2,
then the ledger is simply a copy of any other ledger from
the previous round 𝑟 − 1 justifying value 𝑣. (The asymmetry
may seem strange, but is useful in finding the guilty parties!)
We define a certificate for a decision of value 𝑣 in round
𝑟 to consist of (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) echo messages, each properly signed,
received in Phase 2 of round 𝑟 that contain only value 𝑣 (and
no other value).

5.4

 one of the received ledgers is enough
 Echo after receiving (𝑡 0 + 1) copies.

 check if there are 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 compatible messages

21: ComputeJustification(valuesi , esti , ri , bin_valuesi , messagesi ):
22: if 𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑖 = (𝑟𝑖 mod 2) then
23:
if 𝑟𝑖 > 1 then
24:
ledger 𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ] ← ledger ℓ where (EST[𝑟𝑖 ], ⟨𝑣, ℓ, ·⟩) ∈ bin_values𝑖
25:
else ledger 𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ] ← ∅
26: else ledger 𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ] ← (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) signed messages from messages𝑖 containing only value est𝑖
27: if values𝑖 = {(𝑟𝑖 mod 2)} ∧ no previous decision by 𝑝𝑖 in previous round then
28:
certificate𝑖 ← (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) signed messages from messages𝑖 containing only value est𝑖
29:
broadcast(est𝑖 , 𝑟𝑖 , 𝑖, certificate𝑖 )
30: return ledger 𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ]

5.3

 broadcast message

Accountability

We now explain how the ledgers and certificates are used.
In every round, when a process uses bv-broadcast to send a
message containing a value, it attaches a ledger from the previous round justifying why that value was adopted. (There
8

Polygraph

5.6

not accompanied by a ledger; however ledgers for value 1 in
round 2 do not require copying old ledgers.)

5.5

Analysis of the Polygraph Protocol

In Appendix B.1, we show that the the BV-broadcast routine provides the requisite properties. This then allows us to
prove the main correctness theorem, which follows immediately from Lemma B.7, Corollary B.9, and Lemma B.10 in
Appendix B.2:

Proving culpability

Theorem 5.1. The Polygraph Protocol is a correct Byzantine consensus protocol guaranteeing agreement, validity, and
termination.

How do disagreeing processes decide which processes were
malicious? When a process decides in round 𝑟 , it sends its
certificate to all the other processes. Any process that decides
a different value in a round > 𝑟 can prove the culpability of at
least ⌈𝑛/3⌉ Byzantine processes by comparing this certificate
to its logged ledgers. (It can then broadcast the proper logged
ledgers to ensure that everyone can identify the malicious
processes.)
We will say that a certificate (e.g., from 𝑝 1 ) and a ledger
(e.g., from 𝑝 2 ) conflict if they are constructed in the same
round 𝑟 , but for different values 𝑣 and 𝑤. That is, both the
certificate and the ledger attest to (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) ECHO messages
from round 𝑟 sent to 𝑝 1 and 𝑝 2 (respectively) that contain
only value 𝑣 and only value 𝑤, respectively. Since every two
sets of size (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) intersect in at least (𝑛 − 2 · 𝑡 0 ) locations,
fixing 𝑡 0 = ⌈𝑛/3⌉ − 1 helps identify at least (𝑡 0 + 1) processes
that sent different Phase 2 messages in round 𝑟 to 𝑝 1 and 𝑝 2
and hence they are malicious.
We now discuss how to find conflicting certificates and
ledgers. Assume that process 𝑝𝑖 decides value 𝑣 in round 𝑟 ,
and that process 𝑝 𝑗 decides a different value 𝑤 in a round > 𝑟 .
(Recall that 𝑣 is the only possible value that can be decided
in round 𝑟 .) There are two cases to consider, depending on
whether 𝑝 𝑗 decides in round 𝑟 + 1 or later.
• Round 𝑟 +1: If 𝑝 𝑗 decides in round 𝑟 +1, then value 𝑤 was
the only candidate value after Phase 2. This implies
that 𝑤 was received by some bv-broadcast message.
Since 𝑟 > 1, we know that the message must have
contained a valid ledger ℓ from round 𝑟 for value 𝑤 ≠ 𝑣.
This ledger ℓ conflicts with the decision certificate of
𝑝𝑖 .
• Round ≥ 𝑟 + 2: Since 𝑝 𝑗 decides 𝑤 ≠ 𝑣, it does not
decide 𝑣 in round 𝑟 + 2. This means that 𝑝 𝑗 has 𝑤 as a
candidate value, which implies that 𝑝 𝑗 received 𝑤 in a
bv-broadcast. Since 𝑟 > 1, we know that the message
must have contained a valid ledger ℓ from round 𝑟 + 1
for value 𝑤 ≠ 𝑣. This ledger ℓ consists of a copy of a
ledger from round 𝑟 for value 𝑤 which conflicts with
the decision certificate of 𝑝𝑖 .
In either case, if 𝑝 𝑗 does not decide 𝑣, then, by looking at the
messages received in round 𝑟 + 1 and 𝑟 + 2, it can identify a
ledger that conflicts with the decision certificate of 𝑝𝑖 and
hence can prove the culpability of at least 𝑡 0 + 1 malicious
processes.

Accountability follows from Lemma B.11, which shows
that disagreement leads every honest process to eventually
receive a certificate and a ledger that conflict:
Theorem 5.2. The Polygraph Protocol is accountable.
If all the processes are honest, then the protocol terminates
in 𝑂(1) rounds after GST. Otherwise, it may take 𝑡 + 1 rounds
after GST to terminate. Lastly, we bound the message and
communication complexity of the protocol. The number of
rounds depends on when the network stabilizes (i.e., we
cannot guarantee a decision for any consensus protocol prior
to GST). We bound, however, the communication complexity
of each round:
Lemma 5.3 (Polygraph Complexity). After 𝜏𝐺𝑆𝑇 , the Polygraph protocol has message complexity 𝑂(𝑛 3 ) and communication complexity 𝑂(𝜅 ·𝑛 4 ), where 𝑛 is the number of participants
and 𝜅 is the security parameter.
Proof. The Polygraph protocol terminates in 𝑂(𝑡) rounds
after 𝜏𝐺𝑆𝑇 both to reach consensus or detect processes responsible for disagreement. As each round executes a bvbroadcast of 𝑂(𝑛 2 ) messages and as 𝑡 = 𝑂(𝑛) we obtain 𝑂(𝑛 3 )
messages. The communication complexity is 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 4 ) since
each message may contain a ledger of 𝑂(𝑛) signatures or
𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛) bits. The remainder of the protocol involves only
𝑂(𝑛 2 ) messages and only 𝑂(𝑛 3 ) communication complexity
(e.g., for the coordinator to broadcast its message, and for
processes to send their ECHO messages).
□
Note that in the good case (after 𝜏𝐺𝑆𝑇 and when 𝑡 < 𝑡 0 )
Polygraph reaches consensus in three message delays. In
Appendix C, we show that the multivalue generalization of
the Polygraph protocol is also correct and accountable.

6

EXPERIMENTS: POLYGRAPH WITH A
BLOCKCHAIN APPLICATION

To understand the overhead of Polygraph over a nonaccountable consensus, we compare the throughput of the
original Red Belly Blockchain [15] based on DBFT [14] and
the “Accountable Red Belly Blockchain” based on Polygraph.
The reason is that DBFT and Polygraph are both one-shot
consensus protocols while a blockchain application allows
9

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Throughput (tx/sec)

20000

geo-distributed processes, which remains superior to most
non-accountable blockchains. Finally, the Accountable Red
Belly Blockchain commits several thousands of transactions
per second on 80 geodistributed machines, which indicates
that the cost of accountability remains practical.

15000
10000
5000
0
20

Red Belly Blockchain
Accountable Red Belly Blockchain
30

40

50
Number of replicas

60

70

7

80

CONCLUSION

We introduced Polygraph, the first accountable Byzantine
consensus algorithm. If 𝑡 < 𝑛/3, it ensures consensus, otherwise it eventually detects users that cause disagreement.
Thanks to its bounded justification size, Polygraph can be
used to commit tens of thousands of blockchain transactions.

Figure 1: The overhead of accountability in the Red Belly
Blockchain with 400 byte transactions cryptographically verified
with ECDSA signatures and parameters secp256k1 when deployed
on 80 replicas geo-distributed in Frankfurt, Ireland, London, N. California and N. Virginia.

Acknowledgements. We wish to thank Alejandro Ranchal
Pedrosa for his help in reproducing the experimental results.
This research is supported under Australian Research Council DP180104030 and FT180100496.

for a more realistic comparison of the performance. To this
end, we implemented the naive multivalue generalization
of Polygraph as described in Appendices C and E. We then
turn the Multivalue Polygraph Protocol into a state machine
replication with the classic technique [2, Fig.4] by tagging
messages with their consensus instance. Finally, we build
a blockchain layer using the Red Belly Blockchain UTXO
model with signed Bitcoin-style transaction requests. We
implemented Polygraph using the RSA 2048 bits signature
scheme to authenticate messages.
We deployed both blockchains on up to 𝑛 = 80 c4.xlarge
AWS virtual machines located in 5 availability zones on
two continents: Frankfurt, Ireland, London, North California
and North Virginia. All machines issue transactions, insert
transactions in their memory pool, propose blocks of 10,000
transactions, verify transaction signatures (and account integrity, and run their respective consensus algorithm with
𝑡 = 𝑡 0 = ⌈ 𝑛3 ⌉ −1, before storing decided blocks to non-volatile
storage. Red Belly Blockchain commits tens of thousands of
Bitcoin TPS on hundreds of geo-distributed processes [15].
Figure 1 represents the throughput while increasing the
number of consensus participants from 20 (4 machines per
zone) to 80 (16 machines per zone). We observe that the cost
of accountability varies from 10% at 20 processes to 40% at
80 processes. The reason is twofold: (i) the accountability
presents an overhead due to the signing and verification
of messages authenticated using RSA 2048 bits in addition
to the verifications of built-in Red Belly Blockchain UTXO
transaction signatures. (ii) the c4.xlarge instances are lowend instances with an Intel Xeon E5-2666 v3 processor of
4 vCPUs, 7.5 GiB memory, and “moderate” network performance. On the one hand, as was observed [15], even in
this low-end situation, the Red Belly Blockchain scales in
that its performance does not drop. On the other hand, we
can see the Accountable Red Belly Blockchain still offers a
throughput of more than 10,000 transactions per second at 80

REFERENCES
[1] Mostéfaoui A., Moumen H., and Raynal M. Signature-free asynchronous Byzantine consensus with 𝑇 < 𝑁 /3 and 𝑂(𝑁 2 ) messages. In
PODC, pages 2–9, 2014.
[2] Abhinav Aggarwal and Yue Guo. A simple reduction from state machine replication to binary agreement in partially synchronous or
asynchronous networks. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2018.
[3] Amitanand S. Aiyer, Lorenzo Alvisi, Allen Clement, Michael Dahlin,
Jean-Philippe Martin, and Carl Porth. BAR fault tolerance for cooperative services. In SOSP, 2005.
[4] Yackolley Amoussou-Guenou, Antonella Del Pozzo, Maria PotopButucaru, and Sara Tucci Piergiovanni. Dissecting tendermint. In
NETYS, pages 166–182, 2019.
[5] Emmanuelle Anceaume, Antonella Del Pozzo, Romaric Ludinard,
Maria Potop-Butucaru, and Sara Tucci-Piergiovanni. Blockchain abstract data type. In SPAA, pages 349–358, 2019.
[6] Gabriel Bracha. Asynchronous Byzantine agreement protocols. Information and Computation 75:130-143, 1985.
[7] Ethan Buchman. Tendermint: Byzantine Fault Tolerance in the Age of
Blockchains. PhD thesis, The University of Guelph, June 2016.
[8] Ethan Buchman, Jae Kwon, and Zarko Milosevic. The latest gossip on
BFT consensus. Technical Report 1807.04938v3, arxiv, 2018.
[9] Vitalik Buterin and Virgil Griffith. Casper the friendly finality gadget.
Technical Report 1710.09437v4, arXiv, Jan 2019.
[10] Christian Cachin and Stefano Tessaro. Asynchronous verifiable information dispersal. In SRDS, pages 191–202, 2005.
[11] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov. Practical Byzantine fault tolerance
and proactive recovery. ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 20(4),
2002.
[12] Tushar Deepak Chandra and Sam Toueg. Unreliable failure detectors
for reliable distributed systems. Journal of the ACM, Volume 43 Issue 2,
Pages 225-267, 1996.
[13] Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli. Polygraph: Accountable byzantine agreement. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2019:587, 2019.
[14] Tyler Crain, Vincent Gramoli, Mikel Larrea, and Michel Raynal.
DBFT: Efficient leaderless Byzantine consensus and its applications to
blockchains. In NCA, pages 1–8, 2018.
[15] Tyler Crain, Chris Natoli, and Vincent Gramoli. Red belly: A secure,
fair and scalable open blockchain. In S&P, 2021.
10

Polygraph

set of initial states, Σ an input alphabet of receivable message,
Λ an output alphabet of messages to send, 𝛿 : Σ𝑛 × 𝑆 → 𝑆 a
transition function and 𝜔 : Σ𝑛 × 𝑆 → Λ𝑛 an output function.
The absence of message is denoted by {𝜖}, {𝜖} ∈ Σ and
{𝜖} ∈ Λ . The process is fitted with a clock which allows it to
take a transition after a certain timeout with {𝜖} as argument
for 𝛿.

[16] Dorothy E. Denning. An intrusion-detection model. IEEE Trans.
Software Eng., 13(2), 1987.
[17] The eth2 upgrades. Accessed: 2020-12-12, https://ethereum.org/en/
eth2/.
[18] Andreas Haeberlen, Petr Kouznetsov, and Peter Druschel. PeerReview:
Practical accountability for distributed systems. SOSP, 2007.
[19] Andreas Haeberlen and Petr Kuznetsov. The fault detection problem.
In OPODIS, pages 99–114, 2009.
[20] Maurice Herlihy and Mark Moir. Blockchains and the logic of accountability: Keynote address. In LICS, pages 27–30, 2016.
[21] libhoststuff.
Accessed: 2021-03-01 https://github.com/hot-stuff/
libhotstuff.
[22] Márk Jelasity, Alberto Montresor, and Ozalp Babaoglu. Detection and
removal of malicious peers in gossip-based protocols. In In Proceedings
of FuDiCo, June 2004.
[23] Kim P. Kihlstrom, Louise E. Moser, and Peter M. Melliar-Smith. Byzantine fault detectors for solving consensus. British Computer Society,
2003.
[24] Eleftherios Kokoris Kogias, Dahlia Malkhi, and Alexander Spiegelman.
Asynchronous distributed key generation for computationally-secure
randomness, consensus, and threshold signatures. In CCS, pages 1751–
1767, 2020.
[25] Leslie Lamport, Robert Shostak, and Marshall Pease. The Byzantine
generals problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and
Systems, 4(3):382–401, 1982.
[26] Butler W. Lampson. Computer security in the real world. In In Proc.
Annual Computer Security Applications Conference, December 2000.
[27] Jinyuan Li and David Mazières. Beyond one-third faulty replicas in
Byzantine fault tolerant systems. In NSDI, pages 10–10, 2007.
[28] Dahlia Malkhi and Michael K. Reiter. Unreliable intrusion detection
in distributed computations. In CSFW, pages 116–125, 1997.
[29] David Mazières and Dennis Shasha. Building secure file systems out
of Byzantine storage. In PODC, pages 108–117, 2002.
[30] Nikolaos Michalakis, Robert Soulé, and Robert Grimm. Ensuring content integrity for untrusted peer-to-peer content distribution networks.
In NSDI, page 11, 2007.
[31] Roberto De Prisco, Dahlia Malkhi, and Michael K. Reiter. On k-set
consensus problems in asynchronous systems. In PODC, pages 257–
265, 1999.
[32] Alejandro Ranchal-Pedrosa and Vincent Gramoli. Blockchain is dead,
long live blockchain! Technical Report 10541v2, arXiv, 2020.
[33] Peiyao Sheng, Gerui Wang, Kartik Nayak, Sreeram Kannan, and
Pramod Viswanath. BFT protocol forensics. Technical Report
2010.06785, arXiv, 2020.
[34] Pierre Tholoniat and Vincent Gramoli. Formal verification of
blockchain Byzantine fault tolerance. Technical Report 1909.07453v2,
arXiv, 2019.
[35] Maofan Yin, Dahlia Malkhi, Michael K. Reiter, Guy Golan Gueta, and
Ittai Abraham. HotStuff: BFT consensus with linearity and responsiveness. In PODC, pages 347–356, 2019.
[36] Aydan R. Yumerefendi and Jeffrey S. Chase. Trust but verify: accountability for network services. In Proceedings of the 11st ACM SIGOPS
European Workshop, page 37, 2004.
[37] Aydan R. Yumerefendi and Jeffrey S. Chase. Strong accountability for
network storage. TOS, 3(3):11:1–11:33, 2007.

A

The agreement according to a local view. A process executing an agreement protocol follows an ordered succession
of states 𝑝(𝑠𝑘 ) = 𝑠 0, ..., 𝑠𝑘 called a path. On the path, the
process has received messages which constitutes an history
ℎ(𝑝(𝑠𝑘 )). The set 𝑆 is a partition of the set of states before decision 𝑆𝑏𝑑 and the set of states after decision 𝑆𝑎𝑑 . The image
of the restriction of 𝛿 on 𝑆𝑎𝑑 is 𝑆𝑎𝑑 , which means a decision
is irrevocable. Among the attribute of 𝑠 ∈ 𝑆, we note 𝑠.𝑟 the
associated round number and 𝑠.𝑑𝑒𝑐 the decided value.
To show that it is impossible to devise a swift Accountability algorithm, we show that no consensus algorithm can be
safe when 𝑡 ≥ 𝑛/3 and that it is impossible given a consensus
algorithm to design a swift verification algorithm for it when
𝑡 0 < 𝑡. Let 𝑛 ∈ {3𝑡 0 + 1, 3𝑡 0 + 2, 3𝑡 0 + 3}. Let 𝑃, 𝑄 and 𝑅 be
three sets of 𝑛 processes such that |𝑃 | ≤ 𝑡 0 , |𝑅| ≤ 𝑡 0 and
|𝑄 | = 𝑛 − |𝑃 | − |𝑅|. The proofs rely on the indistinguishability between pairs of distinct scenarios A, B and C such that
processes in 𝑃 cannot distinguish 𝐴 from 𝐶 and 𝑅 cannot
distinguish 𝐵 from 𝐶.
• Scenario A: All initial values are 0 and the processes in
𝑅 are inactive. The messages sent from 𝑃∪𝑄 to 𝑃∪𝑄 are
delivered in time 1. By 𝑡-resiliency, processes in 𝑃 reach
a decision (0 by validity) within a certain time, noted
𝑇𝐴 . To take this decision, every process 𝑖 of 𝑃 followed
𝑖 , 𝑠 𝑖 where 𝑠 𝑖 ∈ 𝑆
𝑖
a path 𝑠 0𝑖 , ..., 𝑠𝑏𝑑
𝑏𝑑 and 𝑠𝑎𝑑 .𝑑𝑒𝑐 = 0.
𝑎𝑑
𝑏𝑑
• Scenario B: All initial values are 1 and the processes in
𝑃 are inactive. The messages sent from 𝑅∪𝑄 to 𝑅∪𝑄 are
delivered in time 1. By 𝑡-resiliency, processes in 𝑅 reach
a decision (1 by validity) within a certain time, noted
𝑇𝐵 . To take this decision, every process 𝑗 of 𝑅 followed
𝑗
𝑗
𝑗
𝑗
a path 𝑠 0𝑗 , ..., 𝑠𝑏𝑑
, 𝑠𝑎𝑑
where 𝑠𝑏𝑑
∈ 𝑆𝑏𝑑 and 𝑠𝑎𝑑
.𝑑𝑒𝑐 = 1
• Scenario C: All initial values in 𝑃 are 0, all initial values
in 𝑅 are 1 and processes of 𝑄 are Byzantine. These
Byzantine processes behave with respect to those in 𝑃
exactly as they do in Scenario A and with respect to
those in 𝑅 exactly as they do in Scenario B. Messages
sent from 𝑃 ∪ 𝑄 to 𝑃 ∪ 𝑄 are delivered in time 1, as
well as the ones from 𝑅 ∪ 𝑄 to 𝑅 ∪ 𝑄, while the ones
from 𝑃 ∪ 𝑅 to 𝑃 ∪ 𝑅 are delivered in a time greater than
max(𝑇𝐴 ,𝑇𝐵 ).

PROOFS OF THE IMPOSSIBILITY
RESULT

Theorem A.1 (Theorem 4.1). In a partially synchronous
system, no algorithm solves both the Byzantine consensus problem when 𝑡 < 𝑛/3 and the agreement and validity of the
Byzantine consensus problem when 𝑡 0 < 𝑡.

Process. More formally, a process 𝑝𝑖 , 𝑖 ∈ [1, 𝑛] is seen as a
Mealy machine (𝑆, 𝑆 0, Σ, Λ, 𝛿, 𝜔) where 𝑆 is a set of states, 𝑆 0 a
11

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Proof. Assume for the sake of contradiction that it exists
an algorithm preserving the agreement for 𝑡 0 < 𝑡. Because
scenarios A and B are indistinguishable from 𝑃’s standpoint
while scenarios B and C are indistinguishable for 𝑅’s standpoint, 𝑃 must decide 0 while 𝑅 must decide 1 in scenario C.
This yields a contradiction.
□

BV-broadcast the same value, then every honest process
delivers it; and if 𝑝𝑖 is honest and delivers a value, then every
honest process also delivers it.
Lemma B.2 (BV-Obligation). If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and at least (𝑡 0 +
1) honest processes BV-Broadcast the same value 𝑣, then 𝑣
is eventually added to the set 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 of each non-faulty
process 𝑝𝑖 .

Theorem A.2 (Theorem 4.2). For an algorithm that solves
consensus when 𝑡 < 𝑛/3, there is no swift verification algorithm
when 𝑡 > 𝑡 0 .

Proof. Let 𝑣 be a value such that (𝑡 0 + 1) honest processes
invoke BV-broadcast(MSG, 𝑣, ·, ·, ·). Each of these processes
then sends a BVAL message with value 𝑣 and a valid ledger,
and consequently each honest process receives at least 𝑡 0 + 1
BVAL messages for value 𝑣 along with valid ledgers for 𝑣.
Therefore each honest process (i.e., at least 2𝑡 0 + 1 ≤ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 )
broadcasts a BVAL message for 𝑣 with a valid ledger, and
consequently eventually every honest process receives receives at least 2𝑡 0 +1 BVAL messages for 𝑣. Thus every honest
process adds value 𝑣 to bin_values.
□

Proof. Assume for the sake of contradiction that such a
swift verification algorithm exists. The paths followed by the
honest processes are the same in the scenario C, than in the
scenarios A and B. Because no comission message has been
𝑖 ) = ∅ and ∀𝑗 ∈ 𝑅, 𝑉 (𝑠 𝑗 ) = ∅.
sent in A and B, ∀𝑖 ∈ 𝑃, 𝑉 (𝑠𝑏𝑑
𝑏𝑑
𝑖 ) ≠ ∅ or
But in scenario C, we should have ∃𝑖 ∈ 𝑃𝑉 (𝑠𝑏𝑑
𝑗
∃𝑗 ∈ 𝑅, 𝑉 (𝑠𝑏𝑑
) ≠ ∅ which yields a contradiction.
□

B

PROOF OF CORRECTNESS OF
POLYGRAPH

Lemma B.3 (BV-Uniformity). If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and a value 𝑣 is
added to the set 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 of an honest process 𝑝𝑖 , eventually
𝑣 ∈ 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 at every honest process 𝑝 𝑗 .

In this section, we provide the complete proofs that the
binary consensus protocol presented in Section 5 is a correct, accountable Byzantine agreement protocol. First, in
Section B.1, we focus on the properties satisfied by the accountable BV-Broadcast algorithm. Then we return to show
the correctness of the consensus algorithm, as well as prove
that it ensures accountability.

B.1

Proof. If a value 𝑣 is added to the set 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 of an
honest process 𝑝𝑖 , then this process has received at least
(2𝑡 0 + 1) distinct BVAL messages for 𝑣 with valid ledgers (line
7). This implies that at least (𝑡 0 + 1) different honest processes
sent BVAL messages with valid ledgers. So every non-faulty
process receives at least (𝑡 0 +1) BVAL messages with the value
𝑣. Therefore every honest process eventually broadcasts a
BVAL message for 𝑣, and so eventually every honest process
receives receives at least 2𝑡 0 + 1 ≤ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 BVAL messages for
𝑣 with valid ledgers. Thus every honest process adds value 𝑣
to bin_values.
□

Acccountable BV-Broadcast

The BV-broadcast algorithm is presented in lines 1–9 of Algorithm 2. The protocol and proof presented here are quite
similar to that in [14], with small changes to accomodate
ledgers.
First, we prove that it satisfies certain useful properties
when 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 . (These properties will not necessarily hold
when there are more than 𝑡 0 Byzantine processes.) We begin
with a simple structural property (that is later useful for
ensuring validity of consensus): a value is only delivered if
at least one honest process sends it.

Finally, we show termination:
Lemma B.4 (BV-Termination). If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and if every honest process BV-broadcasts some value, then eventually, every
honest process has at least one value in 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠.
Proof. As there are at least (𝑛 −𝑡 0 ) honest processes, each
of them BV-broadcasts some value, and ‘0’ and ‘1’ are the
only possible values, it follows that there is a value 𝑣 ∈ {0, 1}
that is BV-broadcast by at least (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 )/2 ≥ 𝑡 0 + 1 processes
(since one of the two values must be BV-broadcast by at
least half the honest processes). The claim then follows by
Lemma B.2.
□

Lemma B.1 (BV-Justification). If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and if 𝑝𝑖 is honest
and 𝑣 ∈ bin_values, then 𝑣 has been BV-broadcast by some
honest process.
Proof. By contraposition, assume 𝑣 has been BVbroadcast only by faulty processes, i.e., by at most 𝑡 0 processes. Then no process ever receives 𝑡 0 + 1 distinct BVAL
messages for 𝑣, and hence the conditions on lines 4 and 7 are
never met. Thus, no process ever adds 𝑣 to bin_values. □

Finally, we observe the straightforward fact that messages
are only delivered with valid ledgers (with the exception of
messages in Round 1, and message containing value 1 in
Round 2):

We next show that BV-broadcast satisfies some typical
properties of reliable broadcast, i.e., if at least 𝑡 0 + 1 process
12

Polygraph

only value 𝑣. Consider now the ECHO messages received by
some other honest process 𝑝𝑘 . If 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑘 = {𝑣 } or 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑘 =
{𝑣, 𝑤 }, then process 𝑝𝑘 adopts estimate 𝑣. Otherwise, process
𝑝𝑘 has 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑘 = {𝑤 }, which implies that it received at least
𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct ECHO messages containing only value 𝑤.
Thus there are at least 𝑡 0 + 1 processes that sent an ECHO
message to 𝑝𝑖 containing only 𝑣 and an ECHO message to
𝑝𝑘 containing only 𝑤. That, however, is illegal (see line 21),
as a process must send the same ECHO message to all. Since
only 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 processes are Byzantine, this is impossible, so we
conclude that every honest process adopts estimate 𝑣 by the
end of round 𝑟 .
We then conclude, by Lemma B.6, that every honest process decides value 𝑣 in either round 𝑟 + 1 or round 𝑟 + 2. (In
this case, of course, it will be round 𝑟 + 2.)
□

Lemma B.5 (BV-Accountability). If a value 𝑣 is added to
the set bin_values of a non-faulty process 𝑝𝑖 in round 𝑟 (with
the exception of messages in Round 1, and message containing
value 1 in Round 2), then associated with the value 𝑣 is a valid
ledger from round 𝑟 − 1.
Proof. Since every BVAL message without a valid ledger
is discarded (aside from above mentioned exceptions), it
follows immediately that when the conditions on lines 4 and
7 are met, then the process has access to a valid ledger, which
is then included when the value is added to bin_values. □

B.2

Accountable Byzantine Agreement

Here, we prove that the Polygraph protocol is a correct accountable Byzantine agreement protocol. We begin with the
standard properties of consensus, which hold when 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 ,
and then continue to discuss accountability. First, we observe that if every honest process begins a round 𝑟 with the
same estimate, then that value is decided either in round 𝑟
or round 𝑟 + 1. This follows immediately from the fact that
if every honest process BV-broadcasts the same value, then
that is the only value delivered, and so it is the only value
that remains in the system.

It is immediate from BV-broadcast that Polygraph guarantees a stronger form of validity (Lemma B.8) than the one
required by blockchains (Corollary B.9). (The general Polygraph protocol stated in Appendix C that applies to arbitrary
values only ensures the required validity.)
Lemma B.8 (Strong validity). If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and an honest
process decides 𝑣, then some honest process proposed 𝑣.

Lemma B.6. Assume that each honest process begins round 𝑟
with the estimate 𝑣. Then every honest process decides 𝑣 either
at the end of round 𝑟 or round 𝑟 + 1.

Proof. Let round 𝑟 be the first round where a process
𝑝𝑖 adopts a value 𝑣 that was not initially proposed by an
honest process at the beginning of round 1. There are two
possibilities depending on whether 𝑝𝑖 adopts 𝑣 in line 24 or
line 28.
Assume that honest process 𝑝𝑖 in round 𝑟 adopts value 𝑣
in line 24. Then 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 = {𝑣 } in round 𝑟 . This can only happen if 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 = {𝑣 }, since ComputeValues only returns
values that are in 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 or 𝑎𝑢𝑥𝑖 , and 𝑎𝑢𝑥𝑖 only includes
values in 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 . However, 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 only includes
values delivered by BV-broadcast, and Lemma B.1 implies
that every value delivered value was BV-broadcast by an
honest process. So value 𝑣 was the estimate of an honest process 𝑝 𝑗 at the beginning of round 𝑟 . If 𝑟 = 1 then we are done.
If 𝑟 > 1, then we conclude that 𝑣 was adopted as an estimate
in round 𝑟 − 1 by process 𝑝 𝑗 , and hence by induction, we
conclude that 𝑣 was initially proposed by an honest process
at the beginning of round 1.
Assume that honest process 𝑝𝑖 executes line 28, adopting
the parity of the round number as its estimate. This implies
that 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 = {0, 1} in round 𝑟 . This can only happen if
𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 = {0, 1} also, since ComputeValues only returns
values that are in 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 or 𝑎𝑢𝑥𝑖 , and 𝑎𝑢𝑥𝑖 only includes
values in 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 . However, 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 only includes
values delivered by BV-broadcast, and Lemma B.1 implies
that every value delivered value was BV-broadcast by an
honest process. So at least one honest process 𝑝 𝑗 began round
𝑟 with value ‘0’ and at least one honest process 𝑝𝑘 began

Proof. Since every honest process BV-broadcasts the
value 𝑣, we know from Lemma B.2 that 𝑣 is eventually delivered to every honest process, and from Lemma B.1 that 𝑣
is the only value delivered to each honest process. Since 𝑣
is the only value in 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 for each honest 𝑝𝑖 , it is also
the only value echoed via 𝑎𝑢𝑥𝑖 messages, and eventually it
is the only value in 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 .
There are now two cases. If 𝑣 = 𝑟 mod 2, every honest
process decides 𝑣. Otherwise, every honest process continues
to the next round with its estimate equal to 𝑣. In the next
round, 𝑣 = (𝑟 + 1) mod 2, and by the same argument, every
process will then decide 𝑣 in round 𝑟 + 1.
□
We can now observe that if 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , we get agreement,
because after the first round in which some process decides
𝑣, then every process adopts value 𝑣 as its estimate.
Lemma B.7 (Agreement). If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and some honest processes 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑝 𝑗 decide 𝑣 and 𝑤, respectively, then 𝑣 = 𝑤.
Proof. Without loss of generality, assume that 𝑝𝑖 decides
no later than 𝑝 𝑗 . Assume for the sake of contradiction that
𝑣 ≠ 𝑤. Assume that 𝑝𝑖 decides 𝑣 in round 𝑟 . If process 𝑝 𝑗
also decides in round 𝑟 , then 𝑣 = 𝑤 = 𝑟 mod 2. Thus, we
conclude that 𝑝 𝑗 decides in some round > 𝑟 .
In round 𝑟 , we know that 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 = {𝑣 }. This implies that
𝑖 received at least 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct ECHO messages containing
13

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

round 𝑟 with ‘1’. If 𝑟 = 1, then we are done. Otherwise, we
conclude that 𝑝 𝑗 adopted ‘0’ in round 𝑟 − 1 and 𝑝𝑘 adopted
‘1’ in round 𝑟 − 1, and hence by induction we conclude that
both ‘0’ and ‘1’ were initially proposed by honest processes
at the beginning of round 0.
□

of round 𝑟 , every process adopts the same value, and hence
decides either in round 𝑟 or round 𝑟 + 1 by Lemma B.6. □
Thus we conclude (see Theorem 5.1) that when 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , the
binary agreement protocol is correct. We now consider the
case where 𝑡 > 𝑡 0 and show that it still provides accountability.

Corollary B.9 (Validity). If all processes are honest and
begin with the same value, then that is the only decision value.

Lemma B.11 (Accountability). If 𝑡 > 𝑡 0 and two honest processes 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑝 𝑗 decide different values 𝑣 and 𝑤, then
eventually every honest process receives a ledger and a certificate that conflict (providing irrefutable proof that a specific
collection of 𝑡 0 + 1 processes are Byzantine).

Finally, we argue that the protocol terminates:
Lemma B.10 (Termination). If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , every honest process
decides.
Proof. First, we observe that processes continue executing increasing rounds (i.e., no process gets stuck in some
round). Assume, for the sake of contradiction, that 𝑟 is the
first round where some process gets stuck forever, and 𝑝𝑖 is
the process that gets stuck.
A process cannot get stuck in line 12 or line 15 waiting
for a BV-broadcast, since every honest process performs a
BV-broadcast and so by Lemma B.4, every honest process
eventually delivers a value. (And a process cannot get stuck
waiting on a timer, since the timer will always eventually
expire.)
A process also cannot get stuck waiting on line 22: Eventually process 𝑝𝑖 will receive ECHO messages from each of
the 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 honest processes. And by Lemma B.3, every value
that is delivered by BV-broadcast to an honest process will
eventually be delivered to 𝑝𝑖 . Specifically, every value that
is included in an ECHO message from an honest process is
eventually delivered to 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑖 . Thus, eventually a set
of 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 messages is identified, and the waiting condition on
line 22 is satisfied.
The last issue that might prevent progress is if process 𝑝𝑖 ,
or some other process, cannot transmit a proper message due
to missing ledgers. This can only be a problem with messages
being BV-broadcast. If a process completed round 𝑟 −1 and its
estimate was ≠ 𝑟 − 1 mod 2, then it could always construct
a proper ledger in round 𝑟 − 1 from the estimates received. If
a process completed round 𝑟 − 1 and its estimate was = 𝑟 − 1
mod 2, then it must have received a valid ledger for the value
in round 𝑟 − 1 as part of the BV-broadcast; otherwise, it could
not have completed round 𝑟 − 1.
Thus we conclude that every process executes an infinite
number of rounds. The remaining question is whether processes ever decide. Consider the first round 𝑟 after GST where
the timer is sufficiently large that (i) every BV-broadcast
message is delivered, and (ii) the coordinators message is
delivered before the timer expires. In this case, every honest
process will prioritize the coordinator’s value, adopting it
as their 𝑎𝑢𝑥 message in line 18, echoing it in line 21, and
adding only that value to 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 in line 22. Thus at the end

Proof. Assume that 𝑝𝑖 decided 𝑣 in round 𝑟 and 𝑝 𝑗 decided
𝑤 in the round 𝑟 ′ where 𝑤 = 𝑛𝑜𝑡(𝑣) = 1 − 𝑣 and 𝑟 ≤ 𝑟 ′. It is
undeniable (by construction, line 25–26) that 𝑣 = 𝑟 𝑚𝑜𝑑 2.
There are only four possible cases to consider:
(1) Case 1: 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 ≠ {0, 1}
(2) Case 2: 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 = {0, 1} and 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +1 ≠ {𝑣 }
(3) Case 3: 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 = {0, 1} and 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +1 = {𝑣 } and
𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +2 ≠ {𝑣 }
(4) Case 4: 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 = {0, 1} and 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +1 = {𝑣 } and
𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +2 = {𝑣 }
We now consider each of the cases in turn.
Case 1. If 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 = {𝑣 }, then process 𝑝 𝑗 would have decided 𝑣 ≠ 𝑤 in round 𝑟 . So we conclude that 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 = {𝑤 }.
In that case, 𝑙𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑒𝑟 [𝑟 ] 𝑗 and 𝑐𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑒 [𝑟 ] 𝑖 conflict.
Case 2. Assume 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 = {0, 1} and 𝑤 ∈ 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +1 . This
implies that 𝑤 ∈ 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑗 in round 𝑟 + 1. Notice that
round 𝑟 + 1 cannot be round 1, and if it is round 2, then
the value 𝑣 = 1 and so 𝑤 ≠ 1. Thus, BV-Accountability
(Lemma B.5 indicates that 𝑝 𝑗 receives a valid ledger for 𝑤
from round 𝑟 . That ledger conflicts with the certificate for
𝑣 from 𝑟 (and consists of 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct ECHO messages
containing only value 𝑤 in round 𝑟 ).
Case 3. Assume 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 = {0, 1}, 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +1 = {𝑣 }, and
𝑤 ∈ 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +2 . This implies that 𝑤 ∈ 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑗 in round
𝑟 + 2. Since round 𝑟 + 2 > 2, BV-Accountability (Lemma B.5
indicates that 𝑝 𝑗 receives a valid ledger for 𝑤 from round 𝑟 +1.
Since 𝑤 = 𝑟 + 1 mod 2, the ledger for 𝑤 from round 𝑟 + 1 is a
copy of a ledger for 𝑤 from round 𝑟 , which therefore conflicts
with the certificate for 𝑣 for round 𝑟 (and consists of 𝑛 − 𝑡 0
distinct ECHO messages containing only value 𝑤 in round 𝑟 ).
Case 4. Assume 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 = {0, 1}, 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +1 = {𝑣 }, and
𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑠 𝑟𝑗 +2 = {𝑣 }. Then process 𝑝 𝑗 decides 𝑣 in round 𝑟 + 2
and there is agreement.
14

Polygraph

All the cases have been examined, and in each case, process
𝑝 𝑗 has a ledger constructed in round 𝑟 conflicting with the certificate delivered from process 𝑝𝑖 . The conflicting ledger/certificate each contain 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 signed, distinct ECHO messages
containing only value 𝑣 and only value 𝑤 respectively. Since
any two sets of size 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 have an intersection of size 𝑡 0 + 1,
the signatures in the conflicting ledgers prove the existence
of a set 𝐺 of 𝑡 0 + 1 Byzantine processes.
□

C

of a reliable broadcast service satisfying the above properties. Then, in Section C.2, we describe the reliable broadcast
service and prove that it is correct.

C.1

Accountable Byzantine Agreement

We now present the algorithm in more detail. The general
algorithm has three phases.
• First, in lines 1–8, each process uses reliable broadcast
to transmit its value to all the others. Then, whenever
a process receives a reliable broadcast message from
a process 𝑝𝑘 , it proposes ‘1’ in binary consensus instance 𝑘. The first phase ends when there is at least
one decision of ‘1’.
• Second, in lines 10–12, each process proposes ‘0’ in
every remaining binary consensus instance for which
it has not yet proposed a value. The second phase ends
when every consensus instance decides.
• Third, in lines 14–16, each process identifies the smallest consensus instance 𝑗 that has decided ‘1’. (If there
is no such consensus instance, then it does not decide
at all.) It then waits until it has received the reliable
broadcast message from 𝑝 𝑗 and outputs that value.
First, we argue that it solves the consensus problem as
long as 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 :

MULTIVALUE CONSENSUS

In this section, we discuss how to generalize the binary consensus to ensure accountable Byzantine agreement for arbitrary values. We follow the approach from [14]: First, all 𝑛
processes use a reliable broadcast service to send their proposed value to all the other 𝑛 processes. Then, all the process
participate in parallel in 𝑛 binary agreement instances, where
each instance is associated with one of the processes. Lastly,
if 𝑗 is the smallest binary consensus instance to decide 1,
then all the processes decide the value received from process
𝑝𝑗.
The key to making this work is that we need the reliable
broadcast service to be accountable, that is, if it violates
the reliable delivery guarantees, then each honest process
has irrefutable proof of the culpability of 𝑡 + 1 processes.
Specifically, we want a single-use reliable broadcast service
that allows each process to send one message, delivers at
most one message from each process, and guarantees the
following properties:
• RB-Validity: If an honest process RB-delivers a message
𝑚 from an honest process 𝑝 𝑗 , then 𝑝 𝑗 RB-broadcasts
𝑚.
• RB-Send: If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and 𝑝 𝑗 is honest and RB-broadcasts
a message 𝑚, then all honest processes eventually
RB-deliver 𝑚 from 𝑝 𝑗 .
• RB-Receive: If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and an honest process RB-delivers
a message 𝑚 from 𝑝 𝑗 (possibly faulty) then all honest
processes eventually RB-deliver the same message 𝑚
from 𝑝 𝑗 .
• RB-Accountability: If an honest process 𝑝𝑖 RB-delivers
a message 𝑚 from 𝑝 𝑗 and some other honest process 𝑝 𝑗
RB-delivers 𝑚 ′ from 𝑝 𝑗 , and if 𝑚 ≠ 𝑚 ′, then eventually
every process has irrefutable proof of the culpability
of 𝑡 0 + 1 processes.
The resulting algorithm provides a weaker notion of validity: if all processes are honest, then the decision value is
one of the values proposed. (A stronger version of validity
could be achieved with a little more care, but is not needed
for blockchain applications, which depend on an external
validity condition.)
We first, in Section C.1, present the general multivalue
algorithm, and prove that it is correct—assuming the existing

Lemma C.1 (Agreement). If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , then every honest
process eventually decides the same value. If all processes are
honest and propose the same value, that is the only possible
decision.
Proof. First we focus on termination. Since 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , by
the RB-Send property, we know that every honest process
eventually delivers every value that was proposed by an
honest process. Assume for the sake of contradiction that no
binary consensus instance every decides ‘1’. Then eventually,
every honest process proposes ‘1’ for every binary consensus
instance associated with an honest process. By the validity
and termination properties of binary consensus (and since
𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 ), we conclude that these instances all decide ‘1’, which
is a contradiction. Thus eventually every honest process
executes line 10.
Since every honest process eventually proposes a value to
every binary consensus instance, we conclude (since 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 )
that eventually every binary consensus instance decides and
every honest process reaches line 15. Let 𝑗 be the minimum
binary consensus instance that decides ‘0’. Assume (for the
sake of contradiction) that no honest process received the
value from 𝑝 𝑗 . Then every honest process proposed ‘0’ to the
binary consensus instance for 𝑗, and hence by the validity
property, the decision would have been ‘0’, i.e., a contradiction. Thus we know that at least one honest process received
the value that was reliably broadcast by 𝑝 𝑗 .
15

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Algorithm 3 The (Naive) Multivalue Polygraph Protocol
1: gen-propose(𝑣𝑖 ):
2:
RB-broadcast(EST, ⟨𝑣𝑖 , 𝑖 ⟩) → messages𝑖
3:
4:
repeat:
5:
if ∃ 𝑣, 𝑘 : (EST, ⟨𝑣, 𝑘 ⟩) ∈ messages𝑖 then
6:
if BIN-CONSENSUS[𝑘 ] not yet invoked then
7:
BIN-CONSENSUS[𝑘 ].bin-propose(1) → bin-decisions [𝑘 ]𝑖
8:
until ∃𝑘 : bin-decisions [𝑘 ] = 1
9:
10:
for all 𝑘 such that BIN-CONSENSUS[𝑘 ] not yet invoked do
11:
BIN-CONSENSUS[𝑘 ].bin-propose(0) → bin-decisions [𝑘 ]𝑖
12:
wait until for all 𝑘, bin-decisions [𝑘 ] ≠ ⊥
13:
14:
𝑗 = min{𝑘 : bin-decisions [𝑘 ] = 1}
15:
wait until ∃ 𝑣 : (EST, ⟨𝑣, 𝑗 ⟩) ∈ messages𝑖
16:

 reliable broadcast value to all
 when you recieve a value from 𝑝𝑘 , begin consensus instance 𝑘 with a proposal of 1

 wait until the first decision
 begin consensus on the remaining instances
 for these, propose 0
 wait until all the instances decide

 choose the smallest instance that decides 1
 wait until you receive that value

decide 𝑣

 return that value

C.2

Finally, by the RB-Receive property, we know that every
honest process must eventually deliver the value that was
reliably broadcast by 𝑝 𝑗 , and hence every process eventually
returns a value, i.e., we satisfy the termination property.
Next, we argue agreement. Since 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , by the guarantees of the binary consensus instances, every honest process
decides the same thing for each of the instances. Therefore,
all honest processes will choose the same 𝑗 that is the minimum binary consensus instance that decides 1. As we have
already argued, every honest process must eventually deliver
the value reliably broadcast by 𝑝 𝑗 , and that must be the same
value. This guarantees agreement.
Finally, we argue validity: if all the processes are honest,
then every value received by reliable broadcast is from an
honest value, and hence validity is immediate.
□

Reliable Broadcast

We now describe the reliable broadcast service, which is a
straightforward extension of the broadcast protocol proposed
by Bracha [6]. A process begins by broadcasting its message
to everyone. Every process that receives the message directly,
echoes it, along with a signature. Every process that receives
𝑛 −𝑡 0 distinct ECHO messages, sends a READY message. And
if a process receives 𝑡 0 + 1 distinct READY messages, it also
sends a READY message. Finally, if a process receives 𝑛 − 𝑡 0
distinct READY messages, then it delivers it.
The key difference from [6] is that, as in the binary value
consensus protocol, we construct ledgers to justify the messages we send. Specifically, when a process sends a READY
message, if it has received 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct ECHO messages,
each of which is signed, it packages them into a ledger, and
forwards that with its READY message. Alternatively, if a
process sends a READY message because it received 𝑡 0 + 1
distinct READY messages, then it simply copies an existing
(valid) ledger. Either way, if a process 𝑝𝑖 sends a READY message for value 𝑣 which was sent by process 𝑝 𝑗 , then it has
stored a ledger containing 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 signed ECHO messages for
𝑣, and it has sent that ledger to everyone.
As before, two ledgers conflict if they justify two different
values 𝑣 and 𝑣 ′, both supposedly sent by the same process 𝑝 𝑗 .
In that case, one ledger contains 𝑛 −𝑡 0 signed ECHO message
for 𝑣 and the other contains 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 signed ECHO message for
𝑣 ′. Since any two sets of size 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 have an intersection of
size 𝑡 0 + 1, this immediately identifies at least 𝑡 0 + 1 processes
that illegally sent ECHO messages for both 𝑣 and 𝑣 ′. These
process can by irrefutably proved to be Byzantine.
We now prove that the reliable broadcast protocol satisfies
the desired properties. First, we show that it delivers only
one value from each process, and that if 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , then it only
delivers a value if it was previously RB-broadcast by that
process:

Next, we prove that if there is any disagreement, then the
algorithm guarantees accountability:
Lemma C.2 (Accountability). If two honest process 𝑝𝑖
and 𝑝 𝑗 decide different values, then honest processes eventually
receive irrefutable proof of at least 𝑡 0 + 1 Byzantine processes.
Proof. First, assume that 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑝 𝑗 decide different values
for some binary consensus instance. Then, by the accountability of binary consensus, we know that every process
eventually receives the desired irrefutable proof. Alternatively, if 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑝 𝑗 agree for every instance of binary consensus, then they choose the same value 𝑘 that is the minimum
binary consensus instance to decide ‘1’, and they output the
value delivered by the reliable broadcast service from 𝑝𝑘 .
(Recall that the reliable broadcast service delivers only one
value from each process, and 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑝 𝑗 do not decide until
they receive that value.) However, by the RB-accountability
property, we conclude that eventually every process receives
irrefutable proof of at least 𝑡 0 + 1 Byzantine processes. □
16

Polygraph

Algorithm 4 Reliable Broadcast
1: RB-broadcast(𝑣𝑖 ):
2: broadcast(INITIAL, 𝑣𝑖 )
3: upon receiving a message (INITIAL, 𝑣) from 𝑝 𝑗 :
4: broadcast(ECHO, 𝑣, 𝑗)
5: upon receiving 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct messages (ECHO, 𝑣, 𝑗) and not having sent a READY message:
6: Construct a ledger ℓ𝑖 containing the 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 signed messages (ECHO, 𝑣, 𝑗).
7: broadcast(READY, 𝑣, ℓ𝑖 , 𝑗)
8: upon receiving 𝑡 0 + 1 distinct messages (READY, 𝑣, ·, 𝑗) and not having sent a READY message:
9: Set ℓ𝑖 to be one of the (valid) ledgers received (READY, 𝑣ℓ, 𝑗).
10: broadcast(READY, 𝑣, ℓ, 𝑗)
11: upon receiving 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct messages (READY, 𝑣, ·, 𝑗) and not having delivered a message from 𝑗:
12: Let ℓ be one of the (valid) ledgers received (READY, 𝑣, ℓ, 𝑗).
13: deliver(𝑣, 𝑗)

 only executed by the source
 broadcast value 𝑣𝑖 to all
 echo value 𝑣 to all
 send READY message and ledger for 𝑣 to all.
 send READY message for 𝑣 to all.
 send READY message for 𝑣 to all

Since any two sets of size 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 must have an intersection
of size at least 𝑡 0 + 1, we conclude that if 𝑣 ≠ 𝑣 ′, then the
ledgers ℓ𝑖 and ℓ 𝑗 conflict, i.e., prove that at least 𝑡 0 +1 processes
illegally sent ECHO messages for both 𝑣 and 𝑣 ′.
□

Lemma C.3 (RB-Unicity). At most one value (𝑣, 𝑗) is delivered from process 𝑝 𝑗 .
Proof. Follows immediately by inspection: only one message from 𝑝 𝑗 is every delivered to each process..
□

We can now show that if an honest process performs a
RB-broadcast, then as long as 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , every honest process
delivers its message:

Lemma C.4. (RB-Validity) If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , and if an honest process RB-delivers a value 𝑣 from an honest process 𝑝 𝑗 , then 𝑝 𝑗
RB-broadcasts 𝑚.

Lemma C.6. (RB-Send) If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , and if 𝑝 𝑗 is honest and
RB-broadcasts a value 𝑣, then all honest processes eventually
RB-deliver 𝑣 from 𝑝 𝑗 .

Proof. A process only delivers a value 𝑣 for 𝑝 𝑗 if it received (READY, 𝑣, ·, 𝑗) messages from 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 processes, implying that at least one honest process sent a READY message for
𝑣. Let 𝑝𝑖 be the first honest process to send a (READY, 𝑣, ·, 𝑗).
In that case, we know that 𝑝𝑖 must have received 𝑛 − 𝑡 0
distinct (ECHO, 𝑣, 𝑗), implying that at least one honest process sent an ECHO message for 𝑣. An honest process only
sends an (ECHO, 𝑣, 𝑗) message if it received 𝑣 directly from
𝑝 𝑗 . And if 𝑝 𝑗 is honest, it onlys sends 𝑣 if the value was
RB-broadcast.
□

Proof. If 𝑝 𝑗 is honest, then it broadcasts its value 𝑣, properly signed, to all processes. All honest processes receive it
directly from 𝑝 𝑗 and immediately broadcast an ECHO message. (Moreover, there is no other message they could echo,
because there is no other message they could have received
directly from 𝑝 𝑗 .)
Since 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , we know that there are at least 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 honest
processes that perform the ECHO, and hence every honest
process receives at least 𝑛 −𝑡 0 ECHO messages, and hence every honest process broadcasts a READY message. (Of course
there is no other message that an honest process could send
a READY message for, since the first honest process to send
a READY message for some other value must have received
at least 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct ECHO messages for that value; at least
one of those ECHO messages must have been sent by an honest process which received it directly from 𝑝 𝑗 , which—being
honest—only sent value 𝑣.)
Since 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , there are at least 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 honest processes that
send READY messages, and so every honest process receives
𝑛 − 𝑡 0 READY messages and delivers the value 𝑣 from 𝑝 𝑗 . (Of
course 𝑝 𝑗 cannot have delivered any other values 𝑣 ′ from 𝑝 𝑗
earlier, since 𝑝 𝑗 is honest there is no other value 𝑣 ′ that it
RB-broadcast.)
□

Next, we prove a key lemma, showing that either all honest process send READY messages only for one value, or
two conflicting ledgers are eventually received by all honest
processes.
Lemma C.5. Assume that 𝑝𝑖 is an honest process that sends
a READY message for value 𝑣 and that 𝑝 𝑗 is an honest process
that sends a READY message for value 𝑣 ′. Then either 𝑣 = 𝑣 ′
or the ledgers ℓ𝑖 and ℓ 𝑗 constructed by 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑝 𝑗 , respectively,
conflict.
Proof. Process 𝑝𝑖 sends the READY message for 𝑣 either
because (i) it has received 𝑛−𝑡 0 distinct messages (ECHO, 𝑣, ·)
and has constructed a ledger ℓ𝑖 containing those signed messages, or (ii) it has received 𝑡 0 + 1 distinct READY messages
(ECHO, 𝑣, ·, 𝑗), each containing a valid ledger for 𝑣, one of
which it copies as ℓ𝑖 . Either way, process 𝑝𝑖 has a valid ledger
ℓ𝑖 containing 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 signed echo messages for 𝑣. Similarly, by
the same logic, process 𝑝 𝑗 has a valid ledger ℓ 𝑗 containing
𝑛 − 𝑡 0 signed echo message for 𝑣 ′.

Next, we can show that if any honest process delivers a
value 𝑣, then every honest process also delivers value 𝑣—as
long as 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 .
17

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Lemma C.7. (RB-Receive) If 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and an honest process
𝑝𝑘 RB-delivers a value 𝑣 from 𝑝 𝑗 (possibly faulty), then all
honest processes eventually RB-deliver the same message 𝑣
from 𝑝 𝑗 .

and (2) if the aux messages were reliable broadcast, it would
be not necessary to broadcast the heavy ledger in the Phase
1. Note that to bypass the need of a trusted dealer, we build
upon recent results [24]. Indeed, if a correct is able to compute a ledger attached to a value 𝑣 from some RB-delivered
aux-messages, it will be eventually the case for any other
correct process.
With these two observations, we can improve the bitcomplexity of the algorithm, avoiding the costly broadcast of
ledgers and replacing this cost by a cheaper one, i.e., the reliable broadcast of hyper-aux messages with the optimization
of [10].

Proof. Assume 𝑝𝑘 delivers 𝑣 from 𝑝 𝑗 . In this case, 𝑝𝑘 must
have received at least 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 valid READY messages for (𝑣, 𝑗).
Therefore, there must have been at least 𝑡 0 + 1 honest processes that broadcast valid READY messages. This implies
that every honest process receives at least 𝑡 0 + 1 valid READY
messages for (𝑣, 𝑗), and hence also sends a READY message
for (𝑣, 𝑗). (Since 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , we know that an honest process
cannot send a READY message for any other value 𝑣 ′ ≠ 𝑣
for process 𝑗, by Lemma C.5.) Therefore everyone honest
process receives at least 2𝑡 0 + 1 valid READY message for
value 𝑣 for process 𝑗, and hence delivers value 𝑣 from 𝑝 𝑗 . □

Quick and slow instances. We add to the Multivalue Polygraph protocol a variable wait, initially wait = 1. As long as
wait = 1, we have: (a) any proposal for bit 0 is stored but not
taken into account, (b) any proposal for round ≥ 2 is stored
but not take into account.
We replace line 8 of algorithm 3 by line 10 at updated algorithm 5 with the following predicate, called
the (𝑛-𝑡 0 )-predicate: “until ∃𝐾𝑖 , |𝐾𝑖 | ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0, ∀𝑘 ∈
𝐾𝑖 , 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛[𝑘] = 1”. After line 10, the variable wait is
updated to 0, that is the (a) proposals with bit 0 and (b) proposals for round 𝑟 > 1 can be taken into account for the
instances in [1, 𝑛] \ 𝐾𝑖 .

Finally, we show the accountability property: either all
honest processes deliver the same value, or two conflicting
ledgers are received by every honest process:
Lemma C.8. RB-Accountability: If an honest process 𝑝𝑖
RB-delivers value 𝑣 from 𝑝 𝑗 and some other honest process
𝑝 𝑗 RB-delivers 𝑣 ′ from 𝑝 𝑗 , and if 𝑣 ≠ 𝑣 ′, then eventually every
honest process receives two ledgers ℓ and ℓ ′ that conflict.
Proof. If process 𝑝𝑖 delivers 𝑣 from 𝑝 𝑗 , then it received
at least 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 READY messages for value 𝑣, which implies
that at least one honest process 𝑝𝑢 sent a READY message
for 𝑣. Similarly, since 𝑝 𝑗 delivers 𝑣 ′ from 𝑝 𝑗 , we know that at
least one honest process 𝑝 𝑤 sent a READY message for 𝑣 ′. By
Lemma C.5, we know that if 𝑣 ≠ 𝑣 ′, then the ledgers ℓ𝑢 and ℓ𝑤
conflict. Moreover, since both 𝑝𝑢 and 𝑝 𝑤 are honest, they sent
their respective READY messages to all processes, and hence
every honest process receives the conflicting ledgers.
□

D

Lemma D.1 (Liveness). This transformation preserve Liveness.
Proof. Eventually, it exists a set 𝐾𝑐 , |𝐾𝑐 | ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0
such that for every instance 𝑘 ∈ 𝐾𝑐 , the proposal is RBdelivered by every correct process, which then invokes 𝐵𝐼 𝑁 𝐶𝑂𝑁 𝑆𝐸𝑁 𝑆𝑈 𝑆 [𝑘].𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑒(1). Thus, eventually, the set
𝐾𝑐 receives 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 proposals for the binary value 1 such that
every process can decide binary value 1 at round 1.
□

OPTIMIZING THE MULTIVALUE
POLYGRAPH

Lemma D.2 (Local 1 round shot). For every process 𝑖, it
exists a set 𝐾𝑖 , |𝐾𝑖 | ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 such that process 𝑖 decides the
binary value 1 within 1 round at each instance 𝑘 ∈ 𝐾𝑖 .

In this section, we present some optimizations (Algorithms 5,
6 and 7) to the Multivalue Polygraph Protocol to improve the
bit-complexity by a linear multiplicative factor, from 𝑂(𝜅 ·𝑛 5 )
to 𝑂(𝜅 · 𝑛 4 ). To this end, we use two techniques:
First, we wait for the termination of certain “quick” instances that complete in 1 round. When these quick instances
are decided, a correct process knows what it will propose
for all the 𝑛 different instances. This allows to couple the 𝑛
instances, where each correct process sends a vector message
that contains 𝑛 message contents for the 𝑛 different instances.
(see algorithm A vector of 𝑛 aux messages is called an hyperaux message.
Second, we remark that (1) the Cachin-Tessaro optimization [10] reduces the bit complexity of the reliable broadcast
for value with great length ℓ (𝑂(𝑛ℓ + 𝜅 ′𝑛 2 ) instead of 𝑂(𝑛 2 ℓ))

Proof. As liveness is preserved, the (𝑛-𝑡 0 )-predicate is
satisfied.
□
Combining the instances. Each process 𝑖 knows (1) it will
eventually reach a state 𝜎𝑖 where 𝐾𝑖 is decided in one round
and (2) this is the case for any other correct process 𝑗.
Thus after reaching such a state, it becomes possible to
start all the instances I = {𝑖 1, ..., 𝑖𝑛 } and combine the proposals of all the instances. To do so, the processes send vector
that include all these instances, namely, the ones where processes already proposed at round 1. Thus at hyper-round 1
(which is this new round 1 within which all instances are
treated altogether), a correct process is “repeating itself”,
which is not a problem. If a vector of hyper-round 1 does not
18

Polygraph

Algorithm 5 The Optimized Multivalue Polygraph Protocol
1: gen-propose(𝑣𝑖 ):
2:
𝑤𝑎𝑖𝑡𝑖 = 1
3:
hyper-proposal ∈ {0, 1}𝑛 , initially ∀𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑛], hyper-proposal [𝑘 ] = 0
4: RB-broadcast(EST, ⟨𝑣𝑖 , 𝑖 ⟩) → messages𝑖
5:
6:
repeat:
7:
if ∃ 𝑣, 𝑘 : (EST, ⟨𝑣, 𝑘 ⟩) ∈ messages𝑖 then
8:
if BIN-CONSENSUS[𝑘 ] not yet invoked then
9:
BIN-CONSENSUS[𝑘 ].bin-propose(1) → bin-decisions [𝑘 ]𝑖
10:
until ∃𝐾𝑖 , |𝐾𝑖 | ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 , ∀𝑘 ∈ 𝐾𝑖 , 𝑏𝑖𝑛_𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 [𝑘 ] = 1
11:
12:
𝑤𝑎𝑖𝑡𝑖 = 0
13:
∀𝑘 ∈ 𝐾𝑖 , hyper-proposal [𝑘 ] = 1
14: BIN-CONSENSUS.combine-propose(hyper-proposal) → bin-decisions𝑖
15: wait until for all 𝑘, bin-decisions [𝑘 ] ≠ ⊥
16:
17:
𝑗 = min{𝑘 : bin-decisions [𝑘 ] = 1}
18: wait until ∃ 𝑣 : (EST, ⟨𝑣, 𝑗 ⟩) ∈ messages𝑖
19:

 reliable broadcast value to all
 when you recieve a value from 𝑝𝑘 , begin consensus instance 𝑘 with a proposal of 1

 wait until the 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 first decisions
 re-propose 1 for all the decided instances in 𝐾𝑖 and propose 0 for the other instances
 One message for all the instances
 wait until all the instances decide
 choose the smallest instance that decides 1
 wait until you receive that value

decide 𝑣

 return that value

correspond to the binary values that have been sent in the
first phase (without vector), the vector is ignored. When a
process 𝑗 decides at instance 𝑘 at round 𝑟 𝑘𝑗 , it continues to
“help” until round 𝑟 ∗𝑗 + 2, where 𝑟 ∗𝑗 is the highest round of
decision of 𝑗 among all the instances.
At each round 𝑟 ∈ N, , for every process 𝑝, we note
𝐴𝑈 𝑋 𝑝 [𝑟 ] = ⟨𝑎𝑢𝑥 𝑝𝑖 1 [𝑟 ], ..., 𝑎𝑢𝑥 𝑝𝑖𝑛 [𝑟 ]⟩𝜎𝑝 and call this message
an hyper-aux message.
In the optimized version, the hyper-aux message is RBbcast with the optimization of Cachin and Tessaro [10]) (see
line 22 in algoritm 6).

other process. To do so it can use a Solomon code to build
𝐴𝑈 𝑋˜ 𝑗 [𝑟 ] where |𝐴𝑈 𝑋˜ 𝑗 [𝑟 ] | = 𝑂(1)|𝐴𝑈 𝑋 𝑗 [𝑟 ] |. Then it can
𝑝
split 𝐴𝑈 𝑋˜ [𝑟 ] into 𝑛 chunks 𝐴𝑈 𝑋˜ [𝑟 ]
and send to

Avoiding the bv-bcast of ledgers. Now, an hyperestimation is justified by an hyper-aux message that has
been RB-delivered. Thus, this justification will be eventually
RB-delivered by all the correct processes, avoiding the costly
broadcast of ledgers.
A disagreement implies a binary disagreement at a particular instance 𝑘. Two correct processes 𝑖 and 𝑗 that disagree at
instance 𝑘 at rounds 𝑟𝑖 and 𝑟 𝑗 with 𝑟 𝑗 > 𝑟𝑖 , can compare the
hyper-aux messages that have been RB-delivered at round
𝑟𝑖 .
At the end, after GST, the optimized multivalue protocol has a message complexity of 𝑂(𝑛) processes times 𝑂(𝑡 0 )
rounds times 𝑂(𝑛 2 ) (RB-bcast), which is 𝑂(𝑛 4 ) messages.
The optimized multivalue protocol has a bit-complexity of
𝑂(𝜅 ·𝑛 4 ), since the bit complexity of 𝑅𝐵−𝑏𝑐𝑎𝑠𝑡 is only 𝑂(𝜅 ·𝑛 2 )
[10].

In this section we explain how the general Polygraph protocol can held blockchain service providers accountable to
blockchain client processes that do not run the consensus as
long as 𝑡 < 2𝑛/3. Note that a blockchain service can be implemented with a replicated state machine to which separate
clients send requests. A predetermined set of 𝑛 processes,
called a consortium, can propose and decide valid blocks that
they append to their local view of the blockchain through the
General Polygraph Protocol that accepts arbitrary values. A
client can send a get requests to the members of the consortium and if it receives the same view of the blockchain from
a certain number 𝑚 of members (𝑚 = (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) by default), it
considers the transactions of this common view as valid. In
case of disagreement (𝑡 > 𝑡 0 ), the blockchain forks in that
multiple blocks get appended to the same index of the chain,
which could lead to double spending if the resulting branches
have conflicting transactions.

𝑗

𝑗

𝑝 ∈ [1,𝑛]

each process the chunk and an additional constant-size
piece of information used for verification. When a process 𝑝
receives its chunk, it can verify it and then echo it. When
𝑝
a process 𝑞 receives 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 chunks (𝐴𝑈 𝑋˜ 𝑗 [𝑟 ])𝑝 ∈𝜙, |𝜙 |=𝑛−𝑡0 , it
can build 𝐴𝑈 𝑋 𝑗 [𝑟 ] and verify it.

E

A brief explanation of the optimized Reliablebroadcast [10]. The algorithm of Cachin and Tessaro
works as follows: At each round 𝑟 , each process is supposed
to reliably broadcast its hyper-aux 𝐴𝑈 𝑋 𝑗 [𝑟 ] to every

APPLICATION TO BLOCKCHAIN

Preliminaries. We now restate the existing blockchain formalism by Anceaume et al. [5]. A blockchain is a chain of
blocks whose score() function takes as input a blockchain
and returns its score 𝑠 as a natural number, which can be its
19

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Algorithm 6 Coupled Polygraph Protocols
1: combined-propose(hyper-proposal):
2:
hyper-est𝑖 = hyper-proposal
3: r𝑖 = 0
4: timeout𝑖 = 0
5: hyper-aux-msgs𝑖 [−1] = hyper-aux-msgs𝑖 [0] = ∅
6: repeat:
7:
r𝑖 ← r𝑖 + 1;
8:
timeout𝑖 ← timeout𝑖 + 1
9:
coord𝑖 ← ((𝑟𝑖 − 1) mod 𝑛) + 1
⊲ Phase 1:
10:
for 𝑘 ∈ [1 : 𝑛] do
11:
light-bv-bcast(LEST[𝑟𝑖 ] [𝑘 ], hyper-est [k]𝑖 , 𝑖, hyper-bin_values𝑖 [𝑘 ], hyper-aux-msgs𝑖 [𝑟 − 1], hyper-aux-msgs𝑖 [𝑟 − 2])  binary value broadcast the
current estimate of all the instances, without broadcast any ledger. The bit-complexity is 𝑂(𝑛) per instance, per node, per round that is 𝑂(𝑛 4 ) in total after GST

12:
13:

wait until ∀𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑛], (hyper-bin_values𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ] [𝑘 ] ≠ ∅ and
note {𝑤𝑖 = ({𝑤 1 }, ..., {𝑤𝑛 })}) where ∀𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑛], 𝑤𝑘 is the first value bv-delivered at instance 𝑘 by coord𝑖 .
messages received by binary value broadcast for all the instances

14:
15:

if 𝑖 = coord𝑖 then
broadcast(HCOORD[𝑟𝑖 ], 𝑤𝑖 ) → hyper-messages𝑖

 hyper-bin_values stores binary

 coordinator rebroadcasts the first value received at each instance

StartTimer(timeout𝑖 )
wait until timer 𝑖 expired
⊲ Phase 2:
18:
if (HCOORD[𝑟𝑖 ], 𝑤𝑐 ) ∈ hyper-messages𝑖 from 𝑝 coord𝑖 ∧ ∀𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑛], 𝑤𝑐 [𝑘 ] ∈ hyper-bin_values𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ] [𝑘 ]) then
19:
hyper-aux𝑖 ← 𝑤𝑐
20:
else hyper-aux𝑖 ← 𝑤𝑖
16:
17:

21:
22:

 otherwise, use any value received

signature𝑖 = sign(hyper-aux𝑖 , 𝑟𝑖 , 𝑖)
 sign the hyper-aux messages. Each signed hyper-aux message has a size of 𝑂(𝑛 + 𝜅) (strictly lower than 𝑂(𝑛 · 𝜅))
RB-broadcast(HECHO[𝑟𝑖 ], hyper-aux𝑖 [𝑟𝑖 ], signature𝑖 ) → hyper-aux-msgs𝑖 [𝑟 ]  Reliable broadcast the second phase messages of all the instances in a unique

hyper-aux message with Cachin-Tessaro optimization. The bit-complexity per sender, per round is 𝑂(𝑛 2 · 𝜅), that is 𝑂(𝑛 4 · 𝜅) in total after GST

23:
24:
25:
26:
27:
28:
29:
30:
31:
32:

wait until ∀𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑛], hyper-valuesi [𝑘 ] = ComputeValues(hyper-aux-msgs𝑖 [𝑟 ] [𝑘 ], hyper-bin_values𝑖 [𝑘 ], hyper-aux𝑖 [𝑘 ]) ≠ ∅
where hyper-aux-msgs𝑖 [𝑟 ] [𝑘 ] = {ℎ𝑎𝑢𝑥 [𝑘 ] |ℎ𝑎𝑢𝑥 ∈ hyper-aux-msgs𝑖 [𝑟 ] }
⊲ Decision phase:
for 𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑛] do
if hyper-values𝑖 [𝑘 ] = {𝑣 } then
hyper-est𝑖 [𝑘 ] ← 𝑣
if 𝑣 = (𝑟𝑖 mod 2) then
if no previous decision by 𝑝𝑖 then decide(𝑘, 𝑣)
else
hyper-est𝑖 [𝑘 ] ← (𝑟𝑖 mod 2)

 for each instance
 if there is only one value at instance 𝑘 , then adopt it
 decide at instance 𝑘 if value matches parity
 otherwise, adopt the current parity bit

nothing to do
 No ledger to broadcast anymore because of the RB-bcast of Phase 2
Rules:
(1) Every message that is not properly signed by the sender is discarded.
(2) Every message that is sent by bv-broadcast without a valid hyper-ledger after Round 1, except for messages containing value 1 in Round 2, are discarded.
(3) On first discovering an hyper-ledger ℓ that conflicts with an hyper-certificate at an instance 𝑘, send ledger ℓ to all processes.

• local monotonic read: given a sequence of read() operations at the same process, the score of the returned
blockchains never decreases.
• ever growing tree: given an infinite sequence of
append() and read() operations, the score of the returned blockchains eventually grows.
• strong (resp. eventual) prefix property: for each
blockchain returned by a read() operation with score
𝑠, then (resp. eventually) all the read() operations return blockchains sharing the same maximum common
prefix of at least 𝑠 blocks.

height, its weight, etc. A blocktree is a Mealy’s machine whose
states are countable, with an input alphabet comprising operation append(block) to append a block to the blocktree
and operation read() that returns a blockchain, and an oracle Θ distributing permission tokens to processes for them
to include a new block. The blocktree strong (resp. eventual)
consistency is the conjunction of the following properties:
• block validity: each block in a blockchain returned by
a read() operation is valid and has been inserted in the
blocktree with the append() operation.

20

Polygraph

Algorithm 7 Coupled Helper Components
1: light-bv-broadcast(LBVAL[𝑘 ] [𝑟 ], 𝑣𝑎𝑙, 𝑖, bin_values, , hyper-aux-msgs−1 , hyper-aux-msgs−2 ):
2: broadcast(LBVAL[𝑘 ] [𝑟 ], 𝑣𝑎𝑙) → 𝑚𝑠𝑔𝑠
 broadcast message
3: upon receipt of (LBVAL[𝑘 ] [𝑟 ], 𝑣)
4:
if (LBVAL[𝑘 ], 𝑣) received from (𝑡 0 + 1) distinct processes and (LBVAL[𝑘 ] [𝑟 ], 𝑣) not yet broadcast then
5:
broadcast(𝐿𝐵𝑉 𝐴𝐿 [𝑘 ] [𝑟 ], 𝑣)
 Echo after receiving (𝑡 0 + 1) copies.
6:
if (BVAL[𝑘 ], 𝑣) received from (2𝑡 0 + 1) distinct processes and
7:
IsJustified(v, hyper-aux-msgs−1 , hyper-aux-msgs−2 , r, k)
 Need to build a correctly signed ledger to bv-deliver a value. then
8:
bin_values ← bin_values ∪ {𝑣 }
 deliver after receiving (2𝑡 0 + 1) copies only
9: ComputeValues(messages, b_set, aux_set):
10: if ∃𝑆 ⊆ messages where the following conditions hold:
11:
(i) |𝑆 | contains (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) distinct ECHO[𝑟𝑖 ] messages
12:
(ii) aux _set is equal to the set of values in 𝑆 .
13:
then return(aux _set )
14: if ∃𝑆 ⊆ messages where the following conditions hold:
15:
(i) |𝑆 | contains (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) distinct ECHO[𝑟𝑖 ] messages
16:
(ii) Every value in 𝑆 is in b_set .
17:
then return(𝑉 = the set of values in 𝑆 )
18: else return( ∅)

 No modification

19: IsJustified(v, hyper-aux-msgs−1 , hyper-aux-msgs−2 , r, k):
 check if a bv-broadcasted value is justified by RB-delivered enough hyper-aux messages
20: if 𝑟 > 1 then
21:
if 𝑣 == (𝑟 mod 2) then
22:
if | {h-aux ∈ hyper-aux-msgs−1 |h-aux [𝑘 ] == 𝑣 } | ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 then
23:
return true
24:
else return false
25:
else
26:
if | {h-aux ∈ hyper-aux-msgs−2 |h-aux [𝑘 ] == 𝑣 } | ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 or 𝑟 == 2 then
27:
return true
28:
else return false
29: else
30:
return true

• Stay mute to violate the liveness property of the consensus and so the ever growing tree property of the
blockchain (and so the (even eventual) consistency of
the blockchain).
• Attempt an attack to create a disagreement among the
consortium. Whatever the result of the bid, a proof
of guilt will eventually be spread among all the honest processes (consortium members and clients). Then,
regardless the sentence applied to the malicious processes, a special fork can be created to drop the illegitimate forks (labelled in consequence) due to the
attack. The selection function returns then the unique
blockchain which does not pass by a fork labelled illegitimate. The eventual prefix property is then satisfied.
Moreover, if the potential punishment discourages any
attempt of disagreement-attack (for example with a
negative utility function in game theory approach),
then the strong prefix property is ensured.
So, as long 𝑡 < (𝑛−𝑡 0 ), the eventual prefix property is ensured,
but the ever-growing tree property is violated if 𝑡 > 𝑡 0 .

Now we consider three cases depending on the number of
Byzantine processes, namely the nominal case, the degraded
case and the zombie case when respectively 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , 𝑡 0 < 𝑡 <
(𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) and (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) ≤ 𝑡 ≤ 𝑛.
Nominal case (𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 ). In this case the strong consistency is
preserved. To read the state of a blockchain, a client asks the
𝑛 members of the consortium (read() invocation) and waits
for 𝑚 = 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 identical answers (read() response events).
Indeed, if the assumption 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 holds, the consensus will
finish (the ever growing tree property is ensured) and the
client will eventually receive at least 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 identical answers.
But nothing prevents the Byzantine processes to stay mute
forever or give false answers, that is why a client does not
expect (a priori) more than 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 answers. While 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 , the
frugal Θ𝐹,𝑘=1 oracle manages tokens in a controlled way to
guarantee that no more than 𝑘 = 1 forks can occur on a given
block (𝑘-fork coherence), thus the consortium blockchain
implements the blocktree strong consistency.
Degraded case (𝑡 0 < 𝑡 < (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 )). In this case the evergrowing tree is violated but not the eventual prefix property. Moreover, if the threat of punishment (allowed by the
accountability) disincentivizes a malicious coalition from
attacking, then the strong prefix property is ensured. Let
𝑡 0 < 𝑡 < 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 . A malicious coalition can do either one of
these actions:
• Follow the protocol.

Zombie case ((𝑛 −𝑡 0 ) ≤ 𝑡 ≤ 𝑛). In this case a super coalition
of 𝑡 > 2𝑛/3 Byzantine processes can override the General
Polygraph Protocol by proposing directly two conflicting
views to two different clients to then perform a doublespending attack. The coalition does not participate to the
consensus in order to violate the liveness property. It follows
21

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

protocol Π𝑝 , i.e., there exists a sequence of states 𝑠 0, 𝑠 1, ... in
Σ𝑝 such that for all 𝑖 ≥ 1, 𝛼 𝑝 (𝑠𝑖−1, 𝐼𝑖 ) = (𝑠𝑖 , 𝑂𝑖 ).
A behavior 𝛽𝑝 is a behavior fragment so that 𝑠 0 = 𝜎𝑝0 .
An execution fragment 𝑒 is a sequence of events. For every
process 𝑝, we note 𝛽𝑝 = 𝑒 |𝑝 the behavior fragment obtained
after projection on the process 𝑝. We say that an execution
𝑒 is valid if and only if for every process 𝑝, the behavior
fragment 𝛽𝑝 = 𝑒 |𝑝 is valid.
An execution is an execution fragment so that for every
process 𝑝, the behavior fragment 𝛽𝑝 = 𝑒 |𝑝 is a behavior.

that the ever growing tree property is violated. Note that
safety is also violated: When a client invokes the read() primitive, the coalition can answer arbitrary values, despite the
non-termination of the legitimate consensus. The client is
supposed to trust the coalition, like all the other clients who
can forever receive a different output for the read() primitive.
Hence, for 𝑡 ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 , the eventual prefix property is violated.
This makes the blockchain vulnerable to a double-spending
attack.

F

Class of PBFT-like algorithms. We define a class L0 of
algorithms that correspond to the leader-based consensus
algorithms derived from PBFT, including Tendermint and
HotStuff. They proceed in views, that can be triggered after
a timeout, and whose leader, chosen in a round-robin fashion, sends a proposal (that we call here a suggestion). Two
variables, preparation and decisions are key to the protocols
and dictate what value can be proposed by the leader in a
new view. Only when messages from sufficiently many distinct processes are collected, can the preparation be changed.
This class L0 allows us to generalize the same result to other
algorithms by simply showing that the algorithms belong to
L0 .

PBFT, TENDERMINT AND HOTSTUFF
DO NOT SOLVE THE ACCOUNTABLE
BYZANTINE AGREEMENT

We now propose an extension that applies to a class of classic Byzantine fault tolerant consensus, that, despite being
intuitive, cannot make these algorithms accountable. This
algorithms corresponds to variants of PBFT [11] in that they
inherits the leader, the views as well as preparation and
decision values exchanged across view changes. In particular, we show that the result applies at least to PBFT [11],
Tendermint [4] and HotStuff [35].
Algorithms. Each process 𝑖 is assigned an algorithm A𝑖 =
(𝑀𝑖 ,𝑇 𝐼𝑖 ,𝑇𝑂𝑖 , 𝑋𝑖 , Σ𝑖 , 𝜎𝑖0, 𝛼𝑖 ), where 𝑀𝑖 is the set of messages
𝑖 can send or receive, 𝑇 𝐼𝑖 is a set of terminal inputs 𝑖 can
receive, 𝑇𝑂𝑖 is a set of terminal outputs 𝑖 can produce, 𝑋𝑖 is
a set of variables, Σ𝑖 is a set of states, based on an evaluation
of the variables, 𝜎𝑖0 ∈ Σ𝑖 is the initial state, and 𝛼𝑖 : Σ𝑖 ×
P(𝑀𝑖 ∪ 𝑇 𝐼𝑖 ) → Σ𝑖 × P(𝑀𝑖 ∪ 𝑇𝑂𝑖 ) maps a set of inputs and
the current state to a set of outputs and the new state. Here,
P(𝑋 ) denotes the power set of 𝑋 . For convenience, we define
𝛼(𝜎, ∅) := (𝜎, ∅) for all 𝜎 ∈ Σ𝑖 .

Definition F.1 (class L0 ). A 𝑡 0 -resilient asynchronous
Byzantine consensus algorithm is in class L0 if it verifies the
following properties:
(1) There is a round-robin rotation of leader that can propose a suggestion at each view: ∀𝑣 ∈ N, ℓ𝑣 = 𝑝𝑥 ∈ Ψ
with 𝑥 = 𝑣 𝑚𝑜𝑑 𝑛.
(2) Each process stores two variables preparation and
decision. These variables comprise a value 𝑠 (suggested by the leader of the last update), an integer representing the view number of the last update
and a set of messages justifying the update. ∀𝑖 ∈
Ψ preparation𝑖 , decision𝑖 ∈ 𝑋𝑖 , type(preparationi ) =
type(decisioni ) = Val ∪ {⊥} × N × P(𝑀). Initially,
𝜎𝑖0 .preparationi .val = 𝜎𝑖0 .decisioni .val = ⊥. The decision variable can be updated only once: a decision is
irrevocable.
(3) Variables preparation and decision can be assigned
in a view 𝑣 (variable decision is assigned only once)
if enough messages are collected from 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 distinct
processes in this same view 𝑣. ∃𝐽 ∈ P(𝑀) where ∀𝑚 ∈
𝐽, 𝑚.𝑣𝑖𝑒𝑤 = 𝑣, 𝜎𝑖 ∈ Σ𝑖 where 𝜎𝑖 .preparationi .view =
𝑣 ′, 𝜎𝑖′ ∈ Σ𝑖 where 𝜎𝑖 .preparationi .view = 𝑣 such that
𝛼𝑖 (𝜎𝑖 , 𝐽 ) = (𝜎𝑖′, .).
(4) The variable decision in a view 𝑣 implies preparation in
the same view 𝑣. If it exists 𝑣 ∈ N, 𝑠 ∈ 𝑉 𝑎𝑙, 𝐽 ∈ P(𝑀) ∩
𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖 s. t. decisioni = (𝑠, 𝑣, 𝐽 ) then ∃𝐽 ′ ∈ P(𝑀) ∩ 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖
𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑖 = (𝑠, 𝑣, 𝐽 ′).

Distributed algorithms. A distributed algorithm is a tuple
(𝐴1, ..., 𝐴𝑛 ), one algorithm per process, such that 𝑀𝑖 = 𝑀 𝑗
for all 𝑖, 𝑗. (The message does not need to contain the sender
or the receiver identifier.) When we say that an execution
𝑒 is an execution of a distributed algorithm 𝐴, this implies
that each process 𝑖 is considered correct or faulty in 𝑒 with
respect to the algorithm 𝐴𝑖 it has been assigned. We write
𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟 (𝐴, 𝑒) to denote the set of processes that are correct in 𝑒
with respect to 𝐴. We note 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖 the variable representing the
set of messages received by 𝑖.
Execution. We define an event as a tuple (𝑝, 𝐼, 𝑂), where 𝑝
is a process on which the event occurs, 𝐼 represents a set of
received messages and observed internal events by 𝑝 and
𝑂 represents a set of sent messages and internal events 𝑝
produces.
A behavior fragment 𝛽𝑝 is a sequence of
events (𝑝, 𝐼 1, 𝑂 1 ), (𝑝, 𝐼 2, 𝑂 2 ), .... We say that 𝛽𝑝
=
(𝑝, 𝐼 1, 𝑂 1 ), (𝑝, 𝐼 2, 𝑂 2 ), ... is valid if and only if it conforms to a
22

Polygraph

Proof. The proof consists of showing by examination of
the code of HotStuff, PBFT and Tendermint that they verifiy
the 8 properties of Def. F.1.
(1) There is a unique process per view, called here a leader,
that is picked in a round robin fashion across subsequent views. This unique process is called leader in
HotStuff, the proposer that changes at each “epoch” in
Tendermint and the primary in PBFT.
(2) There are two variables we refer to as preparation
and decision. These variables are called, respectively,
prepareQC and commitQC in HotStuff, validValue
and decision in Tendermint and prepare and commit
in PBFT.
(3) Let 𝐽 𝑝,𝑣 and 𝐽 𝑑,𝑣 be the justifications for preparation 𝑝
and view 𝑣, and decision 𝑑 and view 𝑣, respectively.
• HotStuff: 𝑚
:
𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑀𝑠𝑔(𝑚, 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒, 𝑣),
𝑚 ′ : 𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑄𝐶(𝑚 ′ .𝑗𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑦, 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒, 𝑣) and
𝑚 ′′ : 𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑄𝐶(𝑚 ′′ .𝑗𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑦, 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡, 𝑣)
• Tendermint:
– Preparation: Line 22: if ∃𝑣 ′
:
2𝑓 +
1⟨𝑃𝑅𝑂𝑃𝑂𝑆𝐸, ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣 ′⟩
∧
𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑(𝑣 ′)
∧
𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝐵𝑦𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑒𝑟 (ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣 ′)
then
Line
23:
𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑉 𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑖 ← 𝑣 ′;
– Decision: Line 24: if ∃𝑣𝑑 , 𝑒𝑑
:
2𝑓 +
1⟨𝑉 𝑂𝑇 𝐸, ℎ, 𝑒𝑑 , 𝑣𝑑 ⟩∧𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑(𝑣𝑑)∧decisioni = 𝑛𝑖𝑙 then
line 25: decisioni ← 𝑣𝑑 .
• PBFT: a new-view and a pre-prepare from the primary and 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 prepare messages.
(4) Decision implies preparation. (FIFO is implicitly implemented, s. t. 𝑚 ′ is always sent after 𝑚 means 𝑚 ′ can
be delivered only if 𝑚 has already been delivered).
• HotStuff:
broadcast𝑀𝑠𝑔(𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑑𝑒, ⊥, 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡𝑄𝐶)
comes after 𝑏𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑐𝑎𝑠𝑡 𝑀𝑠𝑔(pre-commit, ⊥, 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑄𝐶);
• Tendermint:
At
line
18,
broadcast ⟨𝑉 𝑂𝑇 𝐸, ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑖 ⟩ comes after line
4: broadcast ⟨𝑃𝑅𝑂𝑃𝑂𝑆𝐸, ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , proposali ⟩;
• PBFT: a commit message is sent after a prepare message.
(5) Decision implies preparation of (𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) others.
• HotStuff: To build a precommitQC, the leader
need a threshold signature built from 𝑛 −
𝑡 0 𝑣𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑀𝑠𝑔(pre-commit, 𝑚.𝑗𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑦.𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠, ⊥) that
comes after 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑄𝐶 ← 𝑚.𝑗𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑦. Then
𝑏𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑐𝑎𝑠𝑡 𝑀𝑠𝑔(𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑑𝑒, ⊥, 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡𝑄𝐶) comes after
𝑏𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑐𝑎𝑠𝑡 𝑀𝑠𝑔(𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡, ⊥, 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡𝑄𝐶)
• Tendermint: A vote message is triggered by the reception of 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 valid propose messages. At line
8: if ∃𝑣 : 2𝑓 + 1 ⟨𝑃𝑅𝑂𝑃𝑂𝑆𝐸, ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣⟩ ∧ 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑(𝑣) ∧
𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝐵𝑦𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑒𝑟 (ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣) then at sline 11: 𝑣𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑖 ← 𝑣
and at line 17: if 𝑣𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑖 ≠ 𝑛𝑖𝑙 then at line 18: broadcast
⟨𝑉 𝑂𝑇 𝐸, ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑖 ⟩.

(5) In a fully correct execution, a decision implies the
preparation of the same value by 𝑛 −𝑡 0 other processes
and the reception of as many messages that claim this
fact. If it exists 𝑣 ∈ N, 𝑠 ∈ Val, 𝐽 𝑑 ∈ P(𝑀) ∩ 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖 s. t.
decisioni = (𝑠, 𝑣, 𝐽 𝑑 ), then 𝐽 𝑑 stores a set 𝑚 of set of
messages (𝑚𝑘 )𝑘 ∈Φ (Φ ⊂ Ψ, 𝑝𝑘 ∈ Ψ, |Φ| ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ), s. t.
(𝑚𝑘 sent in an execution 𝑒 by 𝑝𝑘 and 𝑝𝑘 correct) implies
𝑝
(it exists 𝐽𝑘 ∈ P(𝑀) and a state 𝑥𝑘 of the process 𝑘 in
𝑝
the execution 𝑒, s. t. 𝑥𝑘 .preparation𝑠𝑘 = (𝑠, 𝑣, 𝐽𝑘 )).
(6) After a timer expires for view 𝑣, a process sends a newview message to the leader ℓ𝑣+1 of the next view 𝑣 + 1,
containing its preparation and potential additional collected messages to justify its preparation. ∀𝑣 ∈ N, 𝜏𝑖𝑣 =
timer of view 𝑣 expired ∈ 𝑇 𝐼𝑖 , 𝛼(𝜎𝑖 , 𝜏𝑖𝑣 ) = (𝜎𝑖′, {𝑛𝑣𝑖𝑣 })
𝑝 𝑝 𝑝
where 𝑛𝑣𝑖𝑣 = (𝑁𝑉 , 𝑖, 𝑣, (𝑠𝑖 , 𝑣𝑖 , 𝐽𝑖 )) with 𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑡(𝑛𝑣𝑖𝑣 ) = ℓ𝑣+1
𝑝 𝑝 ′𝑝
and 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 = (𝑠𝑖 , 𝑣𝑖 , 𝐽𝑖 ).
𝑣
(7) A suggestion 𝑠 for a view 𝑣 can only be proposed by
the leader (7.1).
Additionnaly (the case of HotStuff and PBFT) this suggestion can be motivated by 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 new-view messages
sent in the previous view 𝑣 − 1 (7.2), the suggestion
will be the value of the propagated preparation prepared at the highest view number (7.3). The collected
new-view messages will allow to build a justification
for the computed suggestion (7.4). 𝛼𝑖 (𝜎𝑖 , 𝐼 ) = (𝜎𝑖′, 𝑂)
with 𝑂 containing a suggestion 𝑠𝑢𝑔𝑔(𝑠 𝑣 , 𝑣, 𝐽 𝑠,𝑣 ) implies
(a) 𝑖 is leader of view 𝑣 and (b) 𝜎𝑖 .𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖 ∪ 𝐼 contains a
set of at least 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 new-view messages (𝑛𝑣𝑘𝑣−1 )𝑘 ∈Φ
(Φ ⊂ Ψ, 𝑝𝑘 ∈ Ψ, |Φ| ≥ 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ) s. t. ∀𝑘 ∈ Φ
𝑝
(𝑛𝑣𝑘𝑣−1 ).𝑣𝑖𝑒𝑤 = 𝑣 − 1 (3) 𝑛𝑣ℎ𝑣−1𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑚𝑎𝑥 {𝑛𝑣𝑘𝑣−1 .𝑣𝑘 } and
Ð
𝑣−1
𝑝
𝑠,𝑣
𝑣−1
𝑝
𝑣−1
𝑠 = 𝑛𝑣ℎ .𝑠 (4) 𝐽 ⊂ 𝑘 ∈Φ (𝑛𝑣𝑘 .𝐽 ∪ 𝑛𝑣𝑘 ).
(8) A preparation of a value 𝑠 at view 𝑣 implies the
reception of a suggest message from the leader
ℓ𝑣 at this view 𝑣 containing the suggestion 𝑠,
potentially with additional received messages
to justify 𝑠 so that 𝑠 verifies a predicate Safe: If
it exists 𝑣 ∈ N, 𝑠 ∈ Val, 𝐽 ∈ P(𝑀) ∩ 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖 s. t.
preparation𝑖 = (𝑠, 𝑣, 𝐽 ) then ∃𝐽 𝑠,𝑣 ∈ P(𝑀) ∩ 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖 ,
Sugg = 𝑠𝑢𝑔𝑔(𝑠, 𝑣, 𝐽 𝑠,𝑣 ) ∈ 𝑙𝑜𝑔𝑖 s. t. a predicate Safe(Sugg)
indicates the validity of the Sugg messages in the
corresponding algorithm.

Next, we explain why HotStuff [35], PBFT [11] and Tendermint [4] are part of this class L0 . For simplicity, we consider
the version of HotStuff without threshold signatures as evaluated in [35]. Note that as we mentioned before in Section 4.2,
threshold signatures are insufficient for accountability and
thus cannot help make HotStuff, PBFT or Tendermint accountable.
Lemma F.2. HotStuff, Tendermint and PBFT are in L0 .
23

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

• PBFT: A commit message is triggered by the reception of 𝑛 −𝑡 0 prepare-messages that lead to the preparation.
(6) Regarding the new-view message:
• HotStuff: 𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑 𝑀𝑠𝑔(new-view, ⊥, 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑄𝐶) to
𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑒𝑟 (𝑣 + 1).
• Tendermint: at line 14, ∀𝑣, 𝑝 𝑗 : (⟨VOTE, ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣⟩, 𝑝 𝑗 ) ∈
messageSet𝑖 , broadcast⟨VOTE, ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣⟩
• PBFT: a view-change message containing a set 𝑃
that contains a set 𝑃𝑚 for each message 𝑚 prepared,
where each 𝑃𝑚 contains 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 prepare messages for
𝑚.
(7) Regarding the suggestion message, we describe the
point of view of the leader as follows:
• In HotStuff, during the prepare phase, for a process
that acts as the leader we have: Property (7.2) holds
with the line: ‘wait for (𝑛 − 𝑓 ) new-view messages:
𝑀 ← {𝑚 | 𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑀𝑠𝑔(𝑚, 𝑛𝑒𝑤-𝑣𝑖𝑒𝑤, 𝑣 −1)}’. Properties (7.3) and (7.4) hold with the line: ’ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑄𝐶 ←
(𝑚 ∈ 𝑀 {𝑚.𝑗𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑦.𝑣𝑖𝑒𝑤 𝑁𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 }). 𝑗𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑦’.

• In Tendermint, the condition ∃𝑣 𝑗 , 𝑒 𝑗
:
𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑𝐵𝑦𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑒𝑟 (ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑣 𝑗 , 𝑒 𝑗 ) at line 21 and the condition 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ 𝑗 ≥ 𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑒𝑑𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ𝑖 ∧ 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ 𝑗 <
𝑒𝑖 at line 27 have to be respected to take into account
the suggestion 𝑣 𝑗 .
• In PBFT, a replica check the well-formedness of a
new-view message.
□
The next definitions are crucial to determine whether an
algorithm is accountable. We first define “justification chain”
as an alternating sequence of sets of messages that transitively justify a proposal sent by a leader, before defining
the “cautiousness” and the “recklessness” properties for algorithm in L0 .
Definition F.3 (Justification chain of any depth 𝑑). Let 𝐴 ∈
L0 , 𝑘, 𝑑 ∈ N, 𝑘 > 𝑑 and 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑘 a suggestion of view 𝑘.
A
justification
chain
for
𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑘
of
depth
𝑑
is
an
alternating
sequence
(𝑁𝑉 𝑘−𝑑 , 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑘−(𝑑−1), 𝑁𝑉 𝑘−(𝑑−1), 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑘−(𝑑−2) ,...,𝑁𝑉 𝑘−1 )
of sets of messages 𝑁𝑉 ℎ ∈ P(𝑀), ℎ ∈ [𝑘 − 𝑑, 𝑘 − 1] and
𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔ℎ ∈ 𝑀, ℎ ∈ [𝑘 − (𝑑 − 1), 𝑘 − 1] where each 𝑁𝑉 ℎ is
sent by a set of processes 𝜙 ℎ where 𝜙 ℎ = {𝑖ℎ,1, ..., 𝑖ℎ,𝑛−𝑡0 }
and each 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔ℎ is sent by ℓℎ so that all these messages can be explained by a fully-correct execution.
More formally, there exists a valid reachable execution fragment 𝑒 ∈ 𝐸, and 𝑒 ′ a sub-execution of 𝑒,
where 𝑒 ′ = (𝑖𝑘−𝑑,1, 𝐼𝑘−𝑑,1, 𝑂𝑘−𝑑,1 ), (𝑖𝑘−𝑑,2, 𝐼𝑘−𝑑,2, 𝑂𝑘−𝑑,2 ), ...
(𝑖𝑘−𝑑,𝑛−𝑡0 , 𝐼𝑘−𝑑,𝑛−𝑡0 , 𝑂𝑘−𝑑,𝑛−𝑡0 )
(ℓ𝑘−(𝑑−1), 𝐼𝑘−(𝑑−1), 𝑂𝑘−(𝑑−1) )
...(𝑖𝑘−1,1, 𝐼𝑘−1,1, 𝑂𝑘−1,1 ), (𝑖𝑘−1,2, 𝐼𝑘−1,2, 𝑂𝑘−1,2 ),
...
(𝑖𝑘−1,𝑛−𝑡0 , 𝐼𝑘−1,𝑛−𝑡0 , 𝑂𝑘−1,𝑛−𝑡0 ) (ℓ𝑘 , 𝐼𝑘 , 𝑂𝑘 ) where these three
properties are all satisfied:
(1) ∀ℎ ∈ [𝑘 − (𝑑 − 1), 𝑘], 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔ℎ ∈ 𝑂ℎ ,
Ð
(2) ∀ℎ ∈ [𝑘 − 𝑑, 𝑘 − 1], 𝑁𝑉 ℎ ⊂ 𝑥 ∈ [1,𝑛−𝑡0 ] 𝑂ℎ,𝑥 ,
(3) ∀ℎ ∈ [𝑘 −𝑑, 𝑘 −1], 𝑁𝑉 ℎ ⊂ 𝐼ℎ+1 (the new-view messages
trigger the suggestion (that could be never delivered
by any process if the timer expires too soon) and
(4) ∀ℎ ∈ [𝑘 −𝑑, 𝑘 −1], if it exists 𝑖𝑥 ∈ 𝜙 ℎ , 𝑛𝑣 𝑥ℎ ∈ 𝑁𝑉 ℎ ∩𝑂ℎ,𝑥
s. t. 𝑛𝑣 𝑥ℎ .𝑣 𝑝 = ℎ and 𝑛𝑣 𝑥ℎ .𝑠 𝑝 = 𝑠, then 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔ℎ = 𝑠. (A
preparation update is motivated by a new well-formed
suggestion)(Nothing prevents the leader from having
a very slow connection, s. t. 𝑛𝑣 𝑥ℎ is not motivated by
𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔ℎ .)
We say that a justification chain for a suggestion 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑘 of
view 𝑘 is complete if its depth is 𝑘.
We say that a justification chain is extractable from a set
of messages 𝑙𝑜𝑔 ∈ P(𝑀) if it exists an algorithm that take
𝑙𝑜𝑔 as input and outputs such a justification chain with a
probability 1 (with a complexity polynomial with the security
number 𝜅).

𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑚𝑎𝑥

Property (7.1) holds with the lines : ‘𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑎𝑙 ←
𝑐𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝐿𝑒𝑎𝑓 (ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑄𝐶.𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠, 𝑐𝑙𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡 ′𝑠 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑑)
𝑏𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑐𝑎𝑠𝑡 𝑀𝑠𝑔(𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒, 𝑐𝑢𝑟𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑎𝑙, ℎ𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑄𝐶)’
• In
Tendermint,
Property
(7.1)
holds
with the lines 16 and 17: At line 16, if
𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑒𝑟 (ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 ) = 𝑝𝑖 then, at line 17, 𝑏𝑟𝑜𝑎𝑑𝑐𝑎𝑠𝑡
⟨𝑃𝑅𝐸-𝑃𝑅𝑂𝑃𝑂𝑆𝐸, ℎ, 𝑒𝑖 , 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑎𝑙𝑖 , 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ𝑖 ⟩𝑖 . The
variable 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑎𝑙𝑖 is updated either a) at line 28 of
PRE-PROPOSE round: 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑎𝑙𝑖 ← 𝑣𝑖 or b) at line
41 of VOTE round : 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑎𝑙𝑖 ← 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑉 𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑖 . In
case a) 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑎𝑙𝑖 verifies conditions of line 27: 2𝑓 + 1
⟨𝑃𝑅𝑂𝑃𝑂𝑆𝐸, ℎ, 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ 𝑗 , 𝑣𝑖 ⟩𝑖 ∧ 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ 𝑗 ≥
𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑒𝑑𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ𝑖 ∧ 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ 𝑗 < 𝑒𝑖 ∧ 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑(𝑣𝑖 ). In case
b) the last update of 𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑉 𝑎𝑙𝑢𝑒𝑖 corresponds to the
last preparation.
• In PBFT, a new-view messages containing 𝑉 containing 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 well-written view-change messages,
O containing the pre-prepare messages according
to 𝑉 .
(8) Regarding the acceptation of a suggestion, we describe
the point of view of a replica that accepts a suggestion
only if it satisfies some properties chosen to ensure
the suggestion is legitimate.
• In HotStuff, during the prepare phase,
a replica waits for message 𝑚 from
𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑒𝑟 (𝑣), 𝑚
:
𝑚𝑎𝑡𝑐ℎ𝑖𝑛𝑔𝑀𝑠𝑔(𝑚, 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒, 𝑣).
If 𝑚.𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠 extends from 𝑚.𝑗𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑦.𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠
and
𝑠𝑎𝑓 𝑒𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠(𝑚.𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠, 𝑚.𝑗𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑖 𝑓 𝑦)
then
𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑑 𝑣𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑀𝑠𝑔(𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑒, 𝑚.𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠, ⊥) to 𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑒𝑟 (𝑣).

24

Polygraph

A complete justification chain is a necessary piece of information to collect before decision to ensure accountability. If
a "hole" appears in the chain, we call it a partial justification
chain and we will show that this is not enough to ensure
accountability.

However, if 𝐴 allowed a correct process to decide at view
𝑣 without an extractable sufficiently deep justification chain
(but only a partial justification chain that contains a hole at
view ℎ ′ ∈ [𝑣 − 𝑡 0 + 1, 𝑣]), we say that 𝐴 verifies recklessness
and we will show (Theorem F.8) this is enough to build
executions where accountability is impossible.

Definition F.4 (Partial justification chain of any depth 𝑑).
Let 𝐴 ∈ L0, 𝑘, 𝑑, 𝑞 ∈ N𝑘 > 𝑑 > 𝑞 and 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑘 a suggestion
of view 𝑘. A partial justification chain for Sugg𝑘 of depth 𝑑
is an alternating sequence of sets of messages that mimics
a justification chain, notwithstanding the fact that it exists
at least an integer ℎ ′ < 𝑘 where the property (3) is not
respected, that is, we do not know the new-view messasges
′
that motivated Suggℎ +1 in the chain. Since a set of new-view
messages at view ℎ ′ is missing, we say that such a partial
justification chain contains a “hole at view ℎ ′”.
If a partial justification chain 𝑝 𝑗𝑐 contains a hole at view
ℎ 𝑓 and for every other contained hole at another view ℎ ′, we
have ℎ 𝑓 > ℎ ′, we say that ℎ 𝑓 is the view of the first hole of
𝑝 𝑗𝑐.
A partial justification chain 𝑝 𝑗𝑐 of a set 𝐽 of different
partial justifications for the same value suggested at the
same view is maximal in 𝐽 , if ∀𝑝 𝑗𝑐 ′ ∈ 𝐽 , the view ℎ ′ of the
first hole of 𝑝 𝑗𝑐 ′ verifies ℎ ′ < ℎ where ℎ is the view of the
first hole of 𝑝 𝑗𝑐.

Definition F.6 (Recklessness). Let 𝐴 ∈ L0 . The recklessness
property ensures that it exists 𝑣 ′ ∈ N, ∀𝑣 𝑗 ∈ N, 𝑣 𝑗 > 𝑣 ′,
we can build an execution 𝑒 ∈ 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑠(𝐴) where process 𝑗
reaches a state 𝜎 𝑗 and decides 𝑠 𝑗 ∈ 𝑉 𝑎𝑙 at view 𝑣 𝑗 without a
sufficiently deep justification chain for 𝑠 𝑗 . More formally:
• ∃𝑠 𝑗 ∈ 𝑉 𝑎𝑙, 𝜎 𝑗 .𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 𝑗 ∈ {𝑠 𝑗 } × {𝑣 𝑗 } × P(M) and
• no justification chain with depth greater than 𝑡 0 − 1
can be extracted from 𝜎 𝑗 .𝑙𝑜𝑔 𝑗 , that is the maximal
partial justification chain that can be extracted from
𝑙𝑜𝑔 𝑗 contains at least a hole in a view 𝑣 − 𝑡 0 ≤ ℎ < 𝑣.
Finally, we will show (Theorem F.11) that for every
algorithm 𝐴 ∈ L0 that verifies recklessness, an extension
𝐴¯ with bounded justification per message still verifies
recklessness and by implication is still not accountable .
Definition F.7 (Class L and L ′). We define L the class of
algorithm in L0 that verifies recklessness and L ′ the class
of algorithm in L0 that ensures cautiousness.

We are ready to define two properties: recklessness
and cautiousness. These properties are about the pieces
of information that are collected before decision. For a
𝑡 0 -resilient asynchronous Byzantine consensus algorithm,
the required information before decision is big enough to
ensure safety and small enough to ensure liveness. We have
the same approach for accountability: we need enough
information to ensure accountability in case of disagreement
and not too much to continue to ensure liveness as long as
𝑡 < 𝑡 0 . For an algorithm 𝐴 in L0 the necessary or sufficient
pieces of information to collect before a decision at view 𝑣
to ensure accountability can be reduced into a sufficiently
deep justification chain.

Theorem F.8. If an algorithm 𝐴 is in L, then it is not
accountable.
Intuition. We design three executions 𝑒 0, 𝑒 1, 𝑒 2 so that
𝑖,𝑗
𝑗
𝑗
(1) 𝑒 1 ∼ 𝑒 2 and (2) 𝑒 0 ∼ 𝑒 1 ∼ 𝑒 2 . In execution 𝑒 1 and 𝑒 2 ,
process 𝑖 decides 𝑠𝑖 at view 𝑣𝑖 while process 𝑗 decides 𝑠 𝑗 at
view 𝑣 𝑗 >> 𝑣𝑖 where 𝑠𝑖 and 𝑠 𝑗 are conflicting, which leads
to a disagreement. To allow the decision of 𝑖, a quorum 𝑄𝑖
prepared 𝑠𝑖 at view 𝑣𝑖 . Later, a set 𝜙 of some processes send
a set 𝑁𝑉 𝑣𝑧 −1 of new-view messages to the leader ℓ𝑣𝑧 of view
𝑣𝑧 to convince it to suggest 𝑠 𝑗 . The processes in 𝐵 = 𝜙 ∩ 𝑄𝑖
with |𝐵| ≥ 𝑡 0 + 1 are guilty since they did not propagate their
preparation of 𝑠𝑖 . These commission faults are sufficient to
reach disagreement. Later, when 𝑖 and 𝑗 detect the disagreement, they are not able to identify the sender 𝜙 of 𝑁𝑉 𝑣𝑧 −1 , s. t.
the executions 𝑒 1 and 𝑒 2 , with different Byzantine processes,
will be indistinguishable for 𝑖 and 𝑗 (1).
The question then becomes whether it is possible for process 𝑗 to suspend its judgment, waiting for additional pieces
of information to collect before its decision to avoid such
a situation. The answer is in the negative. We prove it by
constructing an execution 𝑒 0 where the number of Byzantine processes is lower than 𝑡 0 and process 𝑗 has to make

If a complete jsutification chain is stored in the log of
each correct process before decision, then we say that 𝐴
ensures cautiousness and we will show (Theorem F.9) that it
is enough to ensure accountability.

Definition F.5 (Cautiousness). Let 𝐴 ∈ L0 . The cautiousness property ensures that : ∀𝑒 ∈ 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑠(𝐴) ∀𝑣 𝑗 ∈ N ∀𝜎 𝑗 ∈ Σ 𝑗
s.t. 𝜎 𝑗 .𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 𝑗 = (𝑠 𝑗 , 𝑣 𝑗 , 𝐽 𝑗𝑑 ) then ∀𝜎 𝑗′ following 𝜎 𝑗 in 𝑒,
𝜎 𝑗′ .𝑙𝑜𝑔 𝑗 contains a complete justification chain for 𝑠 𝑗 of
depth 𝑣 𝑗 − 1.
25

Pierre Civit, Seth Gilbert, and Vincent Gramoli

Now, we describe three executions 𝑒 0𝜒 , 𝑒 1𝜒 , 𝑒 2𝜒 that share the
same common structure 𝑒˜ that we presented just before.
In 𝑒 0𝜒 , the messages from 𝑊2 ∪ 𝑃 to 𝐾 are slow. Since
|𝑊2 ∪ 𝑃 | ≤ 𝑡 0 , 𝑗 has to decide without expecting additional
messages, because 𝑗 cannot distingush 𝑒 0𝜒 with another execution where 𝑊2 ∪ 𝑃 is Byzantine and refuse to communicate
with 𝐾.
In 𝑒 1𝜒 , processes in 𝐵 1 = 𝑊1 ∪ 𝑃 ∪ {𝜔 5 } are Byzantine. They
prepared 𝑠𝑖 from 𝑣𝑖 until 𝑣𝑧1 − 1. At 𝑣𝑖 , they convinced (with
𝑄𝑖 ) process 𝑖 to decide 𝑠𝑖 . At 𝑣𝑧1 −1, Byzantine processes in 𝐵 1
pretended they did not prepare 𝑠𝑖 , but only 𝑠 𝑗 and convinced
(with 𝐾 𝑠 𝑗 ) ℓ𝑣𝑧1 to suggest 𝑠 𝑗 .
In 𝑒 2𝜒 , 𝐵 2 = 𝑊2 ∪ 𝑊4 ∪ {𝜔 5 } are Byzantine. They prepared
𝑠𝑖 from 𝑣𝑖 until 𝑣𝑧1 −1. At 𝑣𝑖 , they convinced (with 𝑄𝑖 ) process
𝑖 to decide 𝑠𝑖 . At 𝑣𝑧1 − 1, Byzantine processes in 𝐵 2 pretended
they did not prepare 𝑠𝑖 , but only 𝑠 𝑗 and convinced (with 𝐾 𝑠 𝑗 )
ℓ𝑣𝑧1 to suggest 𝑠 𝑗 .
(Let us note that we could also construct 𝑒 3𝜒 with 𝐵 3 =
𝑊1 ∪ 𝑊4 ∪ {𝜔 5 } or 𝑒 4𝜒 with 𝐵 4 = 𝑊2 ∪ 𝑃 ∪ {𝜔 5 }.)

progress without being able to expect additional messages
since the algorithm has to ensure liveness when 𝑡 < 𝑡 0 (2).
To do so, we construct a chain 𝜒 where each process 𝑝 that
is a leader of a view in 𝜒 (we say 𝑝 ∈ 𝑃) seems particularly
slow to process 𝑗. Since 𝑃 could be Byzantine, process 𝑗, has
to decide without expecting messages from 𝑃. The set 𝑃 will
participate to the new preparation of 𝑠 𝑗 , which would be
impossible if 𝑗 knew that 𝑖 already decided 𝑠𝑖 before its own
decision. After disagreement, 𝑃 will stay mute and will not
reveal the crucial information 𝑁𝑉 𝑣𝑧 −1 that would allow 𝑖 and
𝑗 to determine who are the Byzantine processes.
□
Proof. Let assume 𝐴 ∈ L0 and verifies recklessness and
𝑣 𝑗 > 𝑡0 .
We fix 𝑘 ∈ [1, 𝑡 0 ]. The reader can fix 𝑘 = 1 for this proof,
but we will allow greater values of 𝑘 for Theorem F.11).
We
decompose
Ψ
in
the
partition
{{𝑖, 𝑗 },𝑊1,𝑊2,𝑊3,𝑊4, {𝜔 5 }, 𝑃 } where:
• |𝑊1 | = |𝑊2 | = 𝑡 0 − (𝑘 + 1),
• |𝑊3 | = 𝑡 0 ,
• |𝑊4 | = |𝑃 | = 𝑘,
• |{𝜔 5 }| = |{𝑖}| = |{ 𝑗 }| = 1,
• 𝜔 5 is clearly Byzantine,
• 𝑄𝑖 = Ψ \ 𝑊3 , |𝑄𝑖 | = 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ,
• 𝐾 = Ψ \ (𝑊2 ∪ 𝑃 ∪ {𝑖}) = 𝐾 𝑠𝑖 ∪ 𝐾 𝑠 𝑗 , |𝐾 | = 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 and
• 𝐾 𝑠𝑖 = 𝑊1 ∪ 𝑊4 ∪ { 𝑗 }, 𝐾 𝑠 𝑗 = 𝑊3 ∪ {𝜔 5 }, |𝐾 𝑠𝑖 | = 𝑡 0 ,
|𝐾 𝑠 𝑗 | = 𝑡 0 + 1.
We build a first “partial” execution ˜𝑒, as follows:
We fix 2 ≤ 𝑣𝑖 < 𝑣 𝑗 − 1, so that a process 𝑗 can decide 𝑠 𝑗 at
view 𝑣 𝑗 without requesting a partial justification for 𝑠 𝑗 with
depth (𝑣 𝑗 − 𝑣𝑖 ) (there is a hole at view 𝑣𝑖 ).
At view 𝑣𝑖 − 1, ℓ𝑣𝑖 −1 legitimately suggests 𝑠 and every
process prepares 𝑠 without deciding it.
At view 𝑣𝑖 , ℓ𝑣𝑖 legitimately suggests 𝑠𝑖 (compatible with
𝑠) and every process in 𝐾 𝑠𝑖 prepares 𝑠𝑖 without deciding it,
while the ones in 𝐾 𝑠 𝑗 do not prepare 𝑠𝑖 .
At view 𝑣 𝑗 , every process in 𝐾 prepares 𝑠 𝑗 (compatible
with 𝑠 but not with 𝑠𝑖 ) and decides 𝑠 𝑗 .
We note 𝑣 𝑦 the first view between 𝑣𝑖 and 𝑣 𝑗 where 𝐾 𝑠𝑖
prepares 𝑠 𝑗 .
We build a chain 𝜒 = [𝑣𝑧1 , ..., 𝑣𝑧𝑘 ] between 𝑣𝑖 and 𝑣 𝑦 − 1
so that (1) ∀ℎ ∈ [1, 𝑘], ℓ𝑣𝑧ℎ suggests 𝑠 𝑗 as ℓ𝑣𝑦 (2) 𝑣𝑧𝑘 = 𝑣 𝑦 − 1
and (3) ∀ℎ ∈ [1, 𝑘Ð− 1], 𝑣𝑧ℎ+1 = 𝑣𝑧ℎ + 1.
The set 𝑃 =
ℓ𝑣𝑧ℎ , while ℓ𝑣𝑖 , ℓ𝑣𝑦 ∈ 𝑊3 .

𝑗

𝑗

We have 𝑒 0𝜒 ∼ 𝑒 1𝜒 ∼ 𝑒 2𝜒 .
In each execution, because of recklessness, the correct
processes 𝑖 and 𝑗 never know the new-view messages sent
𝑖,𝑗
to ℓ𝑣𝑧1 to justify the suggestion 𝑠 𝑗 at view 𝑣𝑧1 , s. t. 𝑒 1𝜒 ∼ 𝑒 2𝜒
𝑣
𝑣
(as long as the processes in Γ𝑞 𝑧1 = 𝐵𝑞 ∪𝑊3 ∪ 𝑃 (with |Γ𝑞 𝑧1 | >
𝑛 − 𝑡 0 ), which helped to make prepare 𝑠 𝑗 at view 𝑣𝑧1 stays
mute, which is a key difference with [33] that assume 𝑡 0 + 1
processes are correct and will reveal the key information to
determine the Byzantine processes that did not propagate
their preparation).
We note Attack(𝑣𝑖 , 𝑠𝑖 , 𝑣 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑗 , 𝜒) the triplet (𝑒 0𝜒 , 𝑒 1𝜒 , 𝑒 2𝜒 ).
The construction stays possible as long as 𝑗 does not store
a complete justification chain before its decision. Indeed if
𝑁𝑉 ℎ triggering 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔ℎ+1 at view ℎ is missing in 𝑙𝑜𝑔 𝑗 , then we
chan build Attack(𝑣𝑖 , 𝑠𝑖 , 𝑣 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑗 , 𝜒) with 𝜒 that starts at 𝑣𝑧1 =
ℎ + 1.
To summarize, there exists:
𝑒 0𝜒 ∈ 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑠(𝐴) s. t. |𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟 (𝑒 0𝜒 , 𝐴)| = 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 where 𝑗 decides 𝑠 𝑗 ;
𝑒 1𝜒 ∈ 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑠(𝐴) s. t. |𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟 (𝑒 1𝜒 , 𝐴)| < 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 where 𝑗 decides 𝑠 𝑗 ,
𝑖 decides 𝑠𝑖 conflicting wit 𝑠 𝑗 , 𝑊2 is correct and 𝑊3 is correct
(but slow);
𝑒 2𝜒 ∈ 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑠(𝐴) s. t. |𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟 (𝑒 2𝜒 , 𝐴)| < 𝑛 − 𝑡 0 where 𝑗 decides 𝑠 𝑗 ,
𝑖 decides 𝑠𝑖 conflicting wit 𝑠 𝑗 , 𝑊1 is correct and 𝑊3 is correct
(but slow);
𝑗
𝑗
𝑖,𝑗
so that 𝑒 0𝜒 ∼ 𝑒 1𝜒 ∼ 𝑒 2𝜒 with |𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑟 (𝑒 0𝜒 , 𝐴)| = 𝑛−𝑡 0 and 𝑒 1𝜒 ∼ 𝑒 2𝜒
𝑣𝑧1
as long as processes in Γ𝑞 = 𝐵𝑞 ∪ 𝑊3 ∪ 𝑃 are mute.
Thus in both 𝑒 1𝜒 and 𝑒 2𝜒 , there is a disagreement where we
cannot ensure detection of a process, excepting 𝜔 5 .
Finally, 𝐴 is not accountable.
□

ℎ ∈ [1,𝑘 ]

At each view 𝑣𝑧ℎ ∈ 𝜒,𝑊2 ∪𝑃 ∪{𝜔 5 } updates its preparation
(∀𝑞 ∈ 𝑊2, 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑞 = (𝑠 𝑗 , 𝑣𝑧ℎ , 𝐽 𝑝,𝑣𝑧ℎ )), sends a new-view
message to ℓ𝑣ℎ+1 and also sends a new-view message to ℓ𝑣𝑦 .
Thus ∀𝑣 ∈ [𝑣𝑧1 , 𝑣𝑧𝑘 ] ℓ𝑣 received enough new-view messages from 𝐾 𝑠 𝑗 ∪𝑊2 ∪ 𝑃 ∪ {𝜔 5 } to justify its suggestion of 𝑠 𝑗 ,
which finally justifies the update of preparation of 𝐾 𝑠𝑖 into
𝑠 𝑗 at view 𝑣 𝑦 .
26

Polygraph

Theorem F.9. An algorithm in L ′ is accountable.

in views in 𝜒 before decision. This claims stays true for 𝑒¯0𝜒 .
Thus 𝑗 has to decide after 𝑒¯0𝜒 .
(2) The difference between 𝑒 1𝜒 and 𝑒 2𝜒 is the set of processes
𝑊1 or 𝑊2 that did not propagate correctly its preparation
to the leader ℓ𝑣𝑧1 . Because the depth of the justification is
¯ 𝑣 𝑗 = (𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑣 𝑗 , 𝑗𝑐) holds a justifibounded, the suggestion 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔
cation chain that can end at view 𝑣𝑧1 , but no more. Thus 𝐴¯
verifies recklessness too.
Theorem F.8 applies here: because 𝑖 and 𝑗 do not know
the new-view messages that motivated the suggestion 𝑠 𝑗
of leader ℓ𝑣𝑧1 , 𝑖 and 𝑗 cannot distinguish 𝑒 1𝜒 and 𝑒 2𝜒 after
disagreement. Thus 𝐴¯ is not accountable.
Let’s note that after disagreement the set Γ of other processes that could be able to distinguish 𝑒 1𝜒 and 𝑒 2𝜒 crash. Then
process 𝑖 and 𝑗 cannot say if Γ is slow or crashed.
□

Proof. Before deciding 𝑠𝑖 at view 𝑣𝑖 process 𝑖 received
𝐽 𝑑,𝑣𝑖 at view 𝑣𝑖 . Because of Property (5) of L0 , 𝑄𝑖 prepared 𝑠𝑖
at view 𝑣𝑖 . Let 𝑣𝑧 be the first view greater than 𝑣𝑖 where a process 𝑞 prepared 𝑠𝑞 conflicting with 𝑠𝑖 . Because of Properties
(6), (7) and (8) of L0 , 𝑠𝑞 is justified with 𝑁𝑉 𝑣𝑧 −1 that contains
𝑛 − 𝑡 0 new-view messages from 𝜙 𝑣𝑧 −1 , which propagated
𝑠𝑞 . All processes in 𝑄𝑖 ∩ 𝜙 𝑣𝑧 −1 are guilty since they did not
propagate a correct value. Finally this culpability is proved
thanks to the justification chain that allows to determine 𝑣𝑧
and 𝜙 𝑣𝑧 −1 .
□
Extension. In this paragraph, we propose an “intuitive”
extension 𝐴¯ of 𝐴 ∈ L. We aim to show that it is not enough
to trivially add some justifications in a message to ensure
accountability. Hower, this does not mean that no cheaper
transformation exists to ensure accountability.

Theorem F.12 (Theorem 4.3). HotStuff, PBFT and
Tendermint as well as all their 𝑡 0 -bounded extensions are not
accountable.

Definition F.10 (𝑡 0 -bounded extension). Let 𝑑 ∈ [1, 𝑡 0 − 1].
We define 𝜏𝑑 the function that maps each algorithm 𝐴 ∈ L0
¯ s. t.
into an algorithm 𝐴,
¯ 𝑣 = (𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑣 , 𝑗𝑐)
• each suggestion 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑣 becomes 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔
where 𝑗𝑐 is a justification chain for 𝑆𝑢𝑔𝑔𝑣 suggested at
view 𝑣 with depth 𝑚𝑎𝑥(𝑑, 𝑣).
𝑝 𝑝 𝑝
• each new-view message 𝑛𝑣𝑖𝑣 = (𝑁𝑉 , 𝑖, 𝑣, 𝑠𝑖 , 𝑣𝑖 , 𝐽𝑖 ) be𝑣
𝑣
¯ 𝑖 = (𝑛𝑣𝑖 , 𝑗𝑐) where 𝑗𝑐 is a justification chain
comes 𝑛𝑣
𝑝
𝑝
𝑝
for 𝑠𝑖 suggested at view 𝑣𝑖 with depth 𝑚𝑎𝑥(𝑑, 𝑣𝑖 ).

Proof. Let 𝐴 be an algorithm among HotStuff, PBFT and
Tendermint. At first, Lemma F.2 claims this algorithm is in L0 .
Then recklessness is verified for all of these algorithms since
a justification for a preparation or suggestion never reaches
a depth of 𝑡 0 , so 𝐴 ∈ L. Let 𝐴¯ be an extension of 𝐴 with
justification depth bounded by 𝑡 0 . Because of Theorem F.11,
recklessness continues to be verified s. t. 𝐴¯ ∈ L.
Finally, because of Theorem F.8, 𝐴¯ is not accountable,
which finishes the proof.
□
Remark 1. We stress that this theorem does not claim that
there is no cheap operation to transform an algorithm in L
(like HotStuff, PBFT or Tendermint) into one in L ′ where
accountability would be ensured. This theorem only shows
why a naive approach would fail. Also, if a little change
in these algorithms makes the previous attack not relevant
anymore, that does not mean there is not another attack that
could succeed.

In the remainder, we simply refer to 𝑡 0 -bounded extension
as extension when it is clear from the context.
Theorem F.11 (Escape from L). Let 𝐴 ∈ L and
𝑑 ∈ [1, 𝑡 0 − 1]. Let 𝐴¯ = 𝜏𝑑 (𝐴) be an extension of 𝐴 with depth
of justification 𝑑 bounded by 𝑡 0 − 1. 𝐴¯ ∈ L, which means 𝐴¯ is
not accountable.

Proof. The proof is the same as the one for Theorem F.8
and we chose 𝑘 ≥ 𝑑. We fix 𝑣 𝑦 > 𝑡 0, 𝑣 𝑗 > 𝑣 𝑦 , 𝑣𝑖 = 2, 𝑣𝑧1 =
𝑣 𝑦 − 𝑘. We fix 𝜒 = [𝑣𝑧1 , 𝑣 𝑦 − 1]. We fix 𝑠, 𝑠𝑖 , 𝑠 𝑗 ∈ Val so that
𝑠𝑖 and 𝑠 𝑗 are not compatible while they are both compatible
with 𝑠. We note (𝑒 0𝜒 , 𝑒 1𝜒 , 𝑒 2𝜒 ) = Attack(𝑣𝑖 , 𝑠𝑖 , 𝑣 𝑗 , 𝑠 𝑗 , 𝜒). We note
¯ We
(¯
𝑒 0𝜒 , 𝑒¯1𝜒 , 𝑒¯2𝜒 ) the corresponding extended executions of 𝐴.
𝑗

Remark 2. This attack allows to understand why we have
chosen to extend a “leaderless” algorithm like 𝐷𝐵𝐹𝑇 . Unlike
a leader-based algorithm, such a kind of algorithm has the
property 𝑃 that if 𝑡 ≤ 𝑡 0 and a correct process 𝑖 decides at round
𝑟𝑖 , then every other correct process 𝑗 eventually decides in a
round 𝑟 𝑗 ≤ 𝑟𝑖 + 2. The idea is that we need a justification depth
of only 2 to reveal why 𝑃 did not hold in case of disagreement.

𝑗

want to show that 1) 𝑒¯0𝜒 ∼ 𝑒¯1𝜒 ∼ 𝑒¯2𝜒 to enforce the decision
𝑖,𝑗

and 2) 𝑒¯1𝜒 ∼ 𝑒¯2𝜒 to avoid accountability.
(1) With asynchrony, there is no way to distinguish 𝑒 0𝜒
where 𝑊2 ∪ 𝑃 ∪ {𝑖} are very slow from another execution
where 𝑊2 ∪ 𝑃 {𝑖} are Byzantine and refuse to communicate.
Thus is possible that no process in 𝐾 receive any message
27

