
--- PAGE 1 ---
Solana Alpenglow Consensus
Increased Bandwidth, Reduced Latency
Quentin Kniep Jakub Sliwinski Roger Wattenhofer
Anza
White Paper v1.1, July 22, 2025
Abstract
In this paper we describe and analyze Alpenglow, a consensus protocol
tailored for a global high-performance proof-of-stake blockchain.
The voting component Votor finalizes blocks in a single round of voting
if 80% of the stake is participating, and in two rounds if only 60% of
the stake is responsive. These voting modes are performed concurrently,
such that finalization takes min( δ80%, 2δ60%) time after a block has been
distributed.
The fast block distribution component Rotor is based on erasure cod-
ing. Rotor utilizes the bandwidth of participating nodes proportionally
to their stake, alleviating the leader bottleneck for high throughput. As
a result, total available bandwidth is used asymptotically optimally.
Alpenglow features a distinctive “20+20” resilience, wherein the pro-
tocol can tolerate harsh network conditions and an adversary controlling
20% of the stake. An additional 20% of the stake can be offline if the
network assumptions are stronger.
1 Introduction
“I think there is a world market for maybe five computers.” – This quote
is often attributed to Thomas J. Watson, president of IBM. It is disputed
whether Watson ever said this, but it was certainly in the spirit of the time
as similar quotes exist, e.g., by Howard H. Aiken. The quote was often made
fun of in the last decades, but if we move one word, we can probably agree:
“I think there is a market for maybe five world computers.”
So, what is a world computer ? In many ways a world computer is like
a common desktop/laptop computer that takes commands (“transactions”)
as input and then changes its bookkeeping (“internal state”) accordingly. A
world computer provides a shared environment for users from all over the
world. Moreover, a world computer itself is distributed over the entire world:
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
Instead of just having a single processor, we have dozens, hundreds or thou-
sands of processors, connected through the internet.
Such a world computer has a big advantage over even the most advanced
traditional computer: The world computer is much more fault tolerant, as it
can survive a large number of crashes of individual components. Beyond that,
no authority can corrupt the computer for other users. A world computer
must survive even if some of its components are controlled by an evil botnet.
The currently common name for such a world computer is blockchain.
In this paper we present Alpenglow, a new blockchain protocol. Alpen-
glow uses the Rotor protocol, which is an optimized and simplified variant of
Solana’s data dissemination protocol Turbine [Fou19]. Turbine brought era-
sure coded information dispersal [CT05] to permissionless blockchains. Rotor
uses the total amount of available bandwidth provided by the nodes. Because
of this, Rotor achieves an asymptotically optimal throughput. In contrast,
consensus protocols that do not address the leader bandwidth bottleneck suf-
fer from low throughput.
The Votor consensus logic at the core of Alpenglow inherits the simplic-
ity from the Simplex protocol line of work [CP23; Sho24] and translates it
to a proof-of-stake context, resulting in natural support for rotating leaders
without complicated view changes. In the common case, we achieve finality
in a single round of voting, while a conservative two-round procedure is run
concurrently as backup [SSV25; Von+24].
Intuition
1.1 Alpenglow Overview
First, let us provide a high-level description of Alpenglow. We are going
to describe all the individual parts in detail in Section 2.
Alpenglow runs on top of n computers, which we call nodes, where n can
be in the thousands. This set of nodes is known and fixed over a period of
time called an epoch. Any node can communicate with any other node in the
set by sending a direct message.
Alpenglow is a proof-of-stake blockchain, where each node has a known
stake of cryptocurrency. The stake of a node signals how much the node
contributes to the blockchain. If node v2 has twice the stake of node v1,
node v2 will also earn twice the fees, and provide twice the outgoing network
bandwidth.
Time is partitioned into slots. Each time slot has a slot number and a
designated leader from the set of nodes. Each leader will be in charge for a
fixed amount of consecutive slots, known as the leader window. A threshold
verifiable random function determines the leader schedule.
While a node is the leader, it will receive all the new transactions, either
directly from the users or relayed by other nodes. The leader will construct
a block with these transactions. A block consists of slices for pipelining. The
slices themselves consist of shreds for fault tolerance and balanced dispersal
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
(Section 2.1). The leader incorporates the Rotor algorithm (Section 2.2),
which is based on erasure coding, to disseminate the shreds. In essence, we
want the nodes to utilize their total outgoing network bandwidth in a stake-
fair way, and avoid the common pitfall of having a leader bottleneck. The
leader will continuously send its shreds to relay nodes, which will in turn
forward the shreds to all other nodes.
As soon as a block is complete, the (next) leader will start building and
disseminating the next block. Meanwhile, concurrently, every node eventually
receives that newly constructed block. The shreds and slices of the incoming
blocks are stored in the Blokstor (Section 2.3).
Nodes will then vote on whether they support the block. We introduce
different types of votes (and certificates of aggregated votes) in Section 2.4.
These votes and certificates are stored in a local data structure called Pool
(Section 2.5).
With all the data structures in place, we discuss the voting algorithm Votor
in Section 2.6: If the block is constructed correctly and arrives in time, a node
will vote for the block. If a block arrives too late, a node will instead vote
to skip the block (since either the leader cannot be trusted, or the network
is unstable). If a super-majority of the total stake votes for a block, the
block can be finalized immediately. However, if something goes wrong, an
additional round of voting will decide whether or not to skip the block.
In Section 2.7 we discuss the logic of creating blocks as a leader, and how
to decide on where to append the newly created block.
Finally, in Section 2.8 we discuss Repair – how a node can get missing
shreds, slices or blocks from other peers. Repair is needed to help nodes to
retrieve the content of an earlier block that they might have missed, which is
now an ancestor of a finalized block. This completes the main parts of our
discussion of the consensus algorithm.
Protocol
We proceed to prove the correctness of Alpenglow. First, we prove safety
(we do not make fatal mistakes even if the network is unreliable, see Sec-
tion 2.9), then liveness (we do make progress if the network is reliable, see
Section 2.10). Finally, we also consider a scenario with a high number of crash
failures in Section 2.11.
While not directly essential for Alpenglow’s correctness, Section 3 exam-
ines various concepts that are important for Alpenglow’s understanding. First
we describe our novel Rotor relay sampling algorithm in Section 3.1. Next,
we explore how transactions are executed in Section 3.2.
Then we move on to advanced failure handling. In Section 3.3 we consider
how a node re-connects to Alpenglow after it lost contact, and how the sys-
tem can “re-sync” when experiencing severe network outages. Then we add
dynamic timeouts to resolve a crisis (Section 3.4).
In the last part, we present potential choices for protocol parameters (Sec-
tion 3.5). Based on these we show some measurement results; to better under-
stand possible efficiency gains, we simulate Alpenglow with Solana’s current
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
node and stake distribution, both for bandwidth (Section 3.6) and latency
(Section 3.7).
In the remainder of this section, we present some preliminaries which are
necessary to understand the paper. We start out with a short discussion on
security design goals in Section 1.2 and performance metrics in Section 1.3.
In Section 1.4 we discuss how Alpenglow relates to other work on consensus.
Finally we present the model assumptions (Section 1.5) and the cryptographic
tools we use (Section 1.6).
Intuition
1.2 Fault Tolerance
Safety and security are the most important objectives of any consensus
protocol. Typically, this involves achieving resilience against adversaries that
control up to 33% of the stake [PSL80]. This 33% (also known as “3 f + 1”)
bound is everywhere in today’s world of fault-tolerant distributed systems.
When discovering the fundamental result in 1980, Pease et al. considered
systems where the number of nodes n was small. However, today’s blockchain
systems consist of thousands of nodes! While the 33% bound of [PSL80] also
holds for large n, attacking one or two nodes is not the same as attacking
thousands. In a large scale proof-of-stake blockchain system, running a thou-
sand malicious (“byzantine”) nodes would be a costly endeavor, as it would
likely require billions of USD as staking capital. Even worse, misbehavior is
often punishable, hence an attacker would lose all this staked capital.
So, in a real large scale distributed blockchain system, we will probably
see significantly less than 33% byzantines. Instead, realistic bad behavior
often comes from machine misconfigurations, software bugs, and network or
power outages. In other words, large scale faults are likely accidents rather
than coordinated attacks.
This attack model paradigm shift opens an opportunity to reconsider the
classic 3f + 1 bound. Alpenglow is based on the 5 f + 1 bound that has been
introduced in [DGV04] and [MA06]. While being less tolerant to orthodox
byzantine attacks, the 5 f + 1 bound offers other advantages. Two rounds
of voting are required for finalization if the adversary is strong. However, if
the adversary possesses less stake, or does not misbehave all the time, it is
possible for a correct 5 f + 1 protocol to finalize a block in just a single round
of voting.
In Sections 2.9 and 2.10 we rely on Assumption 1 to show that our protocol
is correct.
Assumption 1 (fault tolerance). Byzantine nodes control less than 20% of
the stake. The remaining nodes controlling more than 80% of stake are cor-
rect.
As we explain later, Alpenglow is partially-synchronous, and Assumption 1
is enough to ensure that even an adversary completely controlling the network
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
(inspecting, delaying, and scheduling communication between correct nodes
at will) cannot violate safety. A network outage or partition would simply
cause the protocol to pause and continue as soon as communication is restored,
without any incorrect outcome.
However, if the network is not being attacked, or the adversary does not
leverage some network advantage, Alpenglow can tolerate an even higher share
of nodes that simply crash. In Section 2.11 we intuitively explain the differ-
ence between Assumption 1 and Assumption 2, and we sketch Alpenglow’s
correctness under Assumption 2.
Assumption 2 (extra crash tolerance) . Byzantine nodes control less than
20% of the stake. Other nodes with up to 20% stake might crash. The re-
maining nodes controlling more than 60% of the stake are correct.
Intuition
1.3 Performance Metrics
Alpenglow achieves the fastest possible consensus. In particular, after a
block is distributed, our protocol finalizes the block in min(δ80%, 2δ60%) time.
We will explain this formula in more detail in Section 1.5; in a nutshell, δθ is
a network delay between a stake-weighted fraction θ of nodes. To achieve this
finalization time, we run an 80% and a 60% majority consensus mechanism
concurrently. A low-latency 60% majority cluster is likely to finish faster on
the 2δ path, whereas more remote nodes may finish faster on the singleδ path,
hence min( δ80%, 2δ60%). Having low latency is an important factor deciding
the blockchain’s usability. Improving latency means establishing transaction
finality faster, and providing users with results with minimal delay.
Another common pain point of a blockchain is the system’s throughput,
measured in transaction bytes per second or transactions per second. In terms
of throughput, our protocol is using the total available bandwidth asymptot-
ically optimally.
After achieving the best possible results across these main performance
metrics, it is also important to minimize protocol overhead, including com-
putational requirements and other resource demands.
Moreover, in Alpenglow, we strive for simplicity whenever possible. While
simplicity is difficult to quantify, it remains a highly desirable property, be-
cause simplicity makes it easier to reason about correctness and implemen-
tation. A simple protocol can also be upgraded and optimized more conve-
niently.
Intiuition
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
1.4 Related Work
Different consensus protocols contribute different techniques to address
different performance metrics. Some techniques can be translated from one
protocol to another without compromise, while other techniques cannot. In
the following we describe each protocol as it was originally published, and not
what techniques could hypothetically be added to the protocol.
Increase Bandwidth. In classic leader-based consensus protocols such as
PBFT [CL99], Tendermint [BKM18] or HotStuff [Yin+19], at a given time
one leader node is responsible for disseminating the proposed payload to all
replicas. This bandwidth bottleneck can constitute a defining limitation on
the throughput [Dan+22; Mil+16; SDV19].
DAG protocols [Dan+22; Spi+22] are a prominent line of work focused on
addressing this concern. In these protocols data dissemination is performed
by all nodes. Unfortunately, protocols following the DAG approach exhibit a
latency penalty [Aru+25]. Some DAG protocols [Kei+22] reduce the latency
penalty by foregoing “certifying” the disseminated data. For example, in
Mysticeti [Bab+25] the leader block can be confirmed in two rounds of voting,
i.e., after disseminating the block and observing two block layers referencing
this block (corresponding to 3 network delays, or 3 δ). However, most of the
data (all non-leader blocks) is ordered by the protocol when a leader block
“certifying” the data is finalized. In other words, most of the throughput
is confirmed with a latency of 5 δ. Some researchers raise concerns that this
technique impacts the robustness of the protocol [Aru+24].
Another prominent technique used to alleviate the leader bottleneck for
high throughput involves erasure coding [CT05; Sho24; Yan+22]. Solana [Fou19;
Yak18] pioneered this approach in blockchains. In this technique, the leader
erasure-codes the payload into smaller fragments. The fragments are sent
to different nodes, which in turn participate in disseminating the fragments,
making the bandwidth use balanced. Alpenglow follows this line of work.
A recent study [LNS25] proposes a framework to compare the impact
of above-mentioned techniques on throughput and latency in a principled
way. The study indicates that erasure coding of the payload (represented by
DispersedSimplex [Sho24]) achieves better latency than DAG protocols.
Reduce Latency. A long line of work proposes consensus protocols that
can terminate after one round of voting, typically called fast or one-step
consensus. This approach has received a lot of attention, e.g., [DGV04; GV07;
Kot+07; Kur02; Lam03; MA06; SR08]. Protocols DGV [DGV04] and FaB
Paxos [MA06] introduce a parametrized model with 3f +2p+1 replicas, where
p ≥ 0. The parameter p describes the number of replicas that are not needed
for the fast path. These protocols can terminate optimally fast in theory (2 δ,
or 2 network delays) under optimistic conditions. Liveness and safety issues of
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
landmark papers were later pointed out [Abr+17], showcasing the complexity
of the domain and thus posing the research question of fast consensus again.
SBFT [Gue+19] addressed the correctness issues. SBFT can terminate after
one round of voting, but is optimized for linear message complexity, therefore
incurring higher latency.
As pointed out by [DGV04], and later in [KTZ21] and [Abr+21], the lower
bound of 3 f + 2p + 1 actually only applies to a restricted type of protocol.
These works prove the lower bound and show single-shot consensus protocols
that use only 3 f + 2p∗ − 1 replicas, with p∗ ≥ 1.
Interestingly, in practice, one-step protocols mightincreasethe finalization
latency, as one-round finalization requires voting betweenn−p replicas, which
could be slower than two rounds of voting between n − f − p replicas that are
more concentrated in a geographic area. Banyan [Von+24] renewed interest
in fast BFT protocols, as it performs a one-round and a two-round mechanism
in parallel, guaranteeing the best possible latency.
Concurrent Work. Kudzu [SSV25] is Alpenglow’s “academic sibling” with
a simpler theoretical model. Like Alpenglow, Kudzu features high throughput
via the previously mentioned technique of erasure coding, and one- and two-
round parallel finalization paths. The differences between Alpenglow and
Kudzu include:
• Kudzu is specified in a permissioned model, while Alpenglow is a proof-
of-stake protocol. In many protocols merely the voting weight of nodes
would be impacted by this difference. However, disseminating erasure-
coded data cannot be easily translated between these models.
• Alpenglow features leader windows where the leader streams the data
without interruption, improving throughput. Concurrent processing of
slots allows block times to be shorter than the assumed latency bound
(∆).
• Alpenglow features fast leader handoff. When the leader is rotated, the
next leader can start producing a block as soon as it has received the
previous block.
• With Assumption 3, Alpenglow features higher resilience to crash faults.
• In Kudzu, due to the different model, nodes can vote as soon as they
receive the first fragment of a block proposal, while in Alpenglow nodes
vote after reconstructing a full proposal. In theory, the former is faster,
while in practice, the difference is a fraction of one network delay.
• The data expansion ratio associated with erasure coding can be freely
set in Alpenglow. We suggest a ratio of 2, while in Kudzu the ratio
needs to be higher.
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Follow-up Work. Hydrangea [SKN25] is a protocol proposed after Alpen-
glow that parametrizes resilience to byzantine and crash faults in a way related
to Alpenglow. The protocol requires n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1, and tolerates f
byzantine faults and c crash faults in partial synchrony. The number of nodes
not needed for finalization in one round of voting is then p = ⌊ c+k
2 ⌋. For ex-
ample, to terminate in one round of voting among 80% of nodes, Hydrangea
would set p = c = k = 20% and f = 13%, for a total of 33% of tolerated
faulty nodes. In contrast, Alpenglow can tolerate f < 20% and a total of 40%
of faulty nodes, but needs Assumption 3 for fault rates higher than 20%.
Hydrangea suffers from a bandwidth bottleneck at the leader and, in
our view, remains underspecified for practical implementation. However, the
parametrization is an interesting contribution than could also be applied to
Alpenglow.
Intuition
1.5 Model and Preliminaries
Names. We introduce various objects of the form Name(x, y). This indi-
cates some deterministic encoding of the object type “Name” and its param-
eters x and y.
Epoch. To allow for changing participants and other dynamics, the protocol
rejuvenates itself in regular intervals. The time between two such changes is
called an epoch. Epochs are numbered as e = 1, 2, 3, etc. The participants
register/unregister two epochs earlier, i.e., the participants (and their stake)
of epoch e + 1 are decided at the end of epoch e − 1, i.e., a long enough time
before epoch e + 1 starts. This makes sure that everybody is in agreement on
the current nodes and their stake at the beginning of epoch e + 1.
Node. We operate on n individual computers, which we call nodes v1, v2,
. . . , v n. The main jobs of these nodes are to send/relay messages and to
validate blocks. Because of this, nodes are sometimes also called validators
in the literature. While the set of nodes changes with every new epoch, as
mentioned in the previous paragraph, the nodes are static and fixed during
an epoch. The set of nodes is publicly known, i.e., each node knows how
to contact (IP address and port number) every node vi. Each node has a
public key, and all nodes know all public keys. The information of each
node (public key, stake, IP address, port number, etc.) is announced and
updated by including the information in a transaction on the blockchain. This
guarantees that everybody has the same information. Currently, Solana has
n ≈ 1,500 nodes, but our protocol can in principle scale to higher numbers.
However, for practical reasons it may be beneficial to bound n ≤ nmax.
Message. Nodes communicate by exchanging authenticated messages. Our
protocol never uses large messages. Specifically, all messages are less than
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
1,500 bytes [Pos84]. Because of this, we use UDP with authentication, so
either QUIC-UDP or UDP with a pair-wise message authentication code
(MAC). The symmetric keys used for this purpose are derived with a key
exchange protocol using the public keys.
Broadcast. Sometimes, a node needs to broadcast the same message to
all (n − 1 other) nodes. The sender node simply loops over all other nodes
and sends the message to one node after the other. Despite this loop, the
total delay is dominated by the network delay. With a bandwidth of 1Gb/s,
transmitting n = 1,500 shreds takes 18 ms (well below the average network
delay of about 80 ms). To get to 80% of the total stake we need to reach
n ≈ 150 nodes, which takes only about 2 ms. Voting messages are shorter,
and hence need even less time. Moreover, we can use a multicast primitive
provided by an alternative network provider, e.g., DoubleZero [FMW24] or
SCION [Zha+11].
Stake. Each node vi has a known positive stake of cryptocurrency. We use
ρi > 0 to denote node vi’s fraction of the entire stake, i.e., Pn
i=1 ρi = 1.
Each (fractional) stake ρi stays fixed during the epoch. The stake of a node
signals how much the node contributes to the blockchain. If node v2 has
twice the stake of node v1, node v2 will also earn roughly twice the fees.
Moreover, node v2 also has twice the outgoing network bandwidth. However,
all nodes need enough in-bandwidth to receive the blocks, and some minimum
out-bandwidth to distribute blocks when they are a leader.
Time. We assume that each node is equipped with a local system clock
that is reasonably accurate, e.g., 50 ppm drift. We do not consider clock drift
in our analysis, but it can be easily addressed by incorporating the assumed
drift into timeout periods. Clocks do not need to be synchronized at all, as
every node only uses its local system clock.
Slot. Each epoch is partitioned into slots. A slot is a natural number asso-
ciated with a block, and does not require timing agreements between nodes.
The time period of a slot could start (and end) at a different local time for
different nodes. Nevertheless, in normal network conditions the slots will
become somewhat synchronized. During an epoch, the protocol will iterate
through slots s = 1, 2, . . . , L. Solana’s current parameter of L = 432,000 is
possible, but much shorter epochs, e.g., L ≈ 18,000, could be advantageous,
for instance to change stake more quickly. Each slot s is assigned a leader
node, given by the deterministic function leader(s) (which is known before the
epoch starts).
Leader. Each slot has a designated leader from the set of nodes. Each
leader will be in charge for a fixed amount of consecutive slots, known as the
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
leader window. A threshold verifiable random function [Dod02; MRV99] is
evaluated before each epoch to determine a publicly known leader schedule
that defines which node is the leader in what slot.
Timeout. Our protocol uses timeouts. Nodes set timeouts to make sure
that the protocol does not get stuck waiting forever for some messages. For
simplicity, timeouts are based on a global protocol parameter ∆, which is
the maximum possible network delay between any two correct nodes when
the network is in synchronous operation. However, timeout durations can be
changed dynamically based on conditions, such that the protocol is correct
irrespectively of the ∆ exhibited by the network. For simplicity, we conser-
vatively assume ∆ to be a constant, e.g., ∆ ≈ 400 ms. Importantly, timeouts
do not assume synchronized clocks. Instead, only short periods of time are
measured locally by the nodes. Therefore, the absolute wall-clock time and
clock skew have no significance to the protocol. Even extreme clock drift can
be simply incorporated into the timeouts - e.g. to tolerate clock drift of 5%,
the timeouts can simply be extended by 5%. As explained later, Alpenglow
is partially-synchronous, so no timing- or clock-related errors can derail the
protocol.
Protocol
Adversary. Some nodes can be byzantine in the sense that they can mis-
behave in arbitrary ways. Byzantine nodes can for instance forget to send a
message. They can also collude to attack the blockchain in a coordinated way.
Some misbehavior (e.g. signing inconsistent information) may be a provable
offense, while some other misbehavior cannot be punished, e.g., sending a
message late could be due to an extraordinary network delay. As discussed in
Assumption 1, we assume that all the byzantine nodes together own strictly
less than 20% of the total stake. Up to an additional 20% of the stake may
be crashed under the conditions described in Section 2.11. The remaining
nodes are correct and follow the protocol. For simplicity, in our analysis (Sec-
tions 2.9 to 2.11) we consider a static adversary over a period of one epoch.
Asynchrony. We consider the partially synchronous network setting of
Global Stabilization Time (GST) [Con+24; DLS88]. Messages sent between
correct nodes will eventually arrive, but they may take arbitrarily long to
arrive. We always guarantee safety, which means that irrespectively of ar-
bitrary network delays (known as the asynchronous network model), correct
nodes output the same blocks in the same order.
Synchrony. However, we only guarantee liveness when the network is syn-
chronous, and all messages are delivered quickly. In other words, correct
nodes continue to make progress and output transactions in periods when
messages between correct nodes are delivered “in time.” In the model of
GST, synchrony simply corresponds to a global worst-case bound ∆ on mes-
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
sage delivery. The GST model captures periods of synchrony and asynchrony
by stating that before the unknown and arbitrary time GST (global stabi-
lization time) messages can be arbitrarily delayed, but after time GST all
previous and future messages m sent at time tm will arrive at the recipient
at latest at time max( GST, tm) + ∆.
Network Delay. During synchrony, the protocol will rarely wait for a time-
out. We model the actual message delay between correct nodes as δ, with
δ ≪ ∆. The real message delay δ is variable and unknown. Naturally, δ is
not part of the protocol, and will only be used for the latency analysis. In
other words, the performance of optimistically responsive protocols such as
Alpenglow in the common case depends only on δ and not the timeout bound
∆. As discussed in Section 1.3, we use δθ to indicate how long it takes a
fraction θ of nodes to send each other messages. More precisely, let S be a
set of nodes with cumulative stake at least θ. In one network delay δθ, each
node in S sends a message to every node in S. If θ = 60% of the nodes
are geographically close, then it is possible that 2 δ60% is less time than δ80%,
which needs only one network delay, but the involvement of 80% of the nodes.
Correctness. The purpose of a blockchain is to produce a sequence of fi-
nalized blocks containing transactions, so that all nodes output transactions
in the same order. Every block is associated with a parent (starting at some
notional genesis block). Finalized blocks form a single chain of parent-child
links. When a block is finalized, all ancestors of the block are finalized as
well.
Our protocol orders blocks by associating them with natural numbered
slots, where a child block has to have a higher slot number than its parent.
For every slot, either some block produced by the leader might be finalized,
or the protocol can yield a skip. The blocks in finalized slots are transmitted
in-order to the execution layer of the protocol stack. Definition 14 describes
the conditions for block finalization. The guarantees of our protocol can be
stated as follows:
• Safety. Suppose a correct node finalizes a block b in slot s. Then, if any
correct node finalizes any block b′ in any slot s′ ≥ s, b′ is a descendant
of b. (See also Theorem 1.)
• Liveness. In any long enough period of network synchrony, correct
nodes finalize new blocks produced by correct nodes. (See also Theo-
rem 2.)
Analysis
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
1.6 Cryptographic Techniques
Hash Function. We have a collision-resistant hash function, e.g., SHA256.
Digital Signature. We have secure (non-forgeable) digital signatures. As
stated earlier, each node knows the public key of every other node.
Aggregate Signature. Signatures from different signers may be combined
non-interactively to form an aggregate signature. Technically, we only require
non-interactive multi-signatures, which only enable signatures over the same
message to be aggregated. This can be implemented in various ways, e.g.
based on BLS signatures [Bon+03]. Aggregate signatures allow certificates to
fit into a short message as long as n ≤ nmax.
Erasure Code. For integer parameters Γ ≥ γ ≥ 1, a (Γ , γ) erasure code
encodes a bit string M of size m as a vector of Γ data pieces d1, . . . , dΓ of
size m/γ + O(log Γ) each. The O(log Γ) overhead is needed to index each
data piece. Erasure coding makes sure that any γ data pieces may be used to
efficiently reconstruct M. The reconstruction algorithm also takes as input
the length m of M, which we assume to be constant (achieved by padding
smaller payloads).
In our protocol, the payload of a slice will be encoded using a (Γ , γ)
Reed-Solomon erasure code [RS60], which encodes a payload M as a vector
d1, . . . , dΓ, where any γ d i’s can be used to reconstructM. The data expansion
rate is κ = Γ/γ.
Merkle Tree. A Merkle tree [Mer79] allows one party to commit to a vector
of data (d1, . . . , dΓ) using a collision-resistant hash function by building a (full)
binary tree where the leaves are the hashes of d1, . . . , dΓ. Each leaf hash is
concatenated with a label that marks the hash as a leaf, and each internal
node of the tree is the hash of its two children. The root r of the tree is the
commitment.
The validation path πi for position i ∈ { 1, . . . ,Γ} consists of the siblings
of all nodes along the path in the tree from the hash of di to the root r. The
root r together with the validation path πi can be used to prove that di is at
position i of the Merkle tree with root r.
The validation path is checked by recomputing the hashes along the cor-
responding path in the tree, and by verifying that the recomputed root is
equal to the given commitment r. If this verification is successful, we call di
the data at position i with path πi for Merkle root r. The collision resistance
of the hash function ensures that no data d′
i ̸= di can have a valid proof for
position i in the Merkle tree.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
Encoding and Decoding. [CT05] The function encode takes as input a
payload M of size m. It erasure codes M as (d1, . . . , dΓ) and builds a Merkle
tree with root r where the leaves are the hashes of d1, . . . , dΓ. The root of
the tree r is uniquely associated with M. It returns ( r, {(di, πi)}i∈{1,...,Γ}),
where each di is the data at position i with path πi for Merkle root r.
The function decode takes as input ( r, {(di, πi)}i∈I), where I is a subset
of {1, . . . ,Γ} of size γ, and each di (of correct length) is the data at position
i with path πi for Merkle root r. Moreover, the decoding routine makes sure
that the root r is correctly computed based on all Γ data pieces that correctly
encode some message M ′, or it fails. If it fails, it guarantees that no set of
γ data pieces associated with r can be decoded, and that r was (provably)
maliciously constructed.
To ensure this pass/fail property, the decoding algorithm needs to check
for each reconstructed data piece that it corresponds to the same rootr. More
precisely, decode reconstructs a message M ′ from the data {di}i∈I. Then, it
encodes M ′ as a vector (d′
1, . . . , d′
Γ), and builds a Merkle tree with root r′ with
the hashes of ( d′
1, . . . , d′
Γ) as leaves. If r′ = r, decode returns M ′, otherwise it
fails.
Protocol
2 The Alpenglow Protocol
In this section we describe the Alpenglow protocol in detail.
Blokstor Repair
Pool block creation
Votor
Rotor
broadcast
Figure 1: Overview of components of Alpenglow and their interactions. Ar-
rows show information flow: block data in the form of shreds (blue), internal
events (green), and votes/certificates (red).
Protocol
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
2.1 Shred, Slice, Block
hash(b)
r1
d1 d2 . . . dΓ
r2
d1 d2 . . . dΓ
. . . rk
d1 d2 . . . dΓ
slice 1 slice 2 slice k
block b
Figure 2: Hierarchy of block data, visualizing the double-Merkle construction
of the block hash. Each slice has a Merkle root hash ri, which are in turn
the leaf nodes for the second Merkle tree, where the root corresponds to the
block hash.
Definition 1 (shred). A shred fits neatly in a UDP datagram. It has the
form:
(s, t, i, zt, rt, (di, πi), σt),
where
• s, t, i ∈ N are slot number, slice index, shred index, respectively,
• zt ∈ {0, 1} is a flag (see Definition 2 below),
• di is the data at position i with path πi for Merkle root rt (Section 1.6),
• σt is the signature of the object Slice(s, t, zt, rt) from the node leader(s).
Definition 2 (slice). A slice is the input of Rotor, see Section 2.2. Given
any γ of the Γ shreds, we can decode (Section 1.6) the slice. A slice has the
form:  
s, t, zt, rt, Mt, σt

,
where
• s, t ∈ N are the slot number and slice index respectively,
• zt ∈ {0, 1} is a flag indicating the last slice index,
• Mt is the decoding of the shred data {(di)}i∈I for Merkle root rt,
• σt is the signature of the object Slice(s, t, zt, rt) from the node leader(s).
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
Definition 3 (block). A block b is the sequence of all slices of a slot, for the
purpose of voting and reaching consensus. A block is of the form:
b = {
 
s, t, zt, rt, Mt, σt

}t∈{1,...,k},
where zk = 1, zt = 0 for t < k . The data of the block is the concatenation
of all the slice data, i.e., M = ( M1, M2, . . . , Mk). We define slot(b) = s.
The block data M contains information about the slot slot(parent(b)) and
hash hash(parent(b)) of the parent block of b. There are various limits on a
block, for instance, each block can only have a bounded amount of bytes and
a bounded amount of time for execution.
Definition 4 (block hash). We define hash(b) of block b = {
 
s, t, zt, rt, Mt,
σt

}t∈{1,...,k} as the root of a Merkle tree T where:
• T is a complete, full binary tree with the smallest possible number of
leaves m (with m being a power of 2) such that m ≥ k,
• the first k leaves of T are r1, . . . , rk (each hash is concatenated with a
label that marks the hash as a leaf),
• the remaining leaves of T are ⊥.
Definition 5 (ancestor and descendant) . An ancestor of a block b is any
block that can be reached from b by the parent links, i.e., b, b’s parent, b’s
parent’s parent, and so on. If b′ is an ancestor of b, b is a descendant of b′.
Note that b is its own ancestor and descendant.
Protocol
2.2 Rotor
Rotor is the block dissemination protocol of Alpenglow. The leader
(sender) wants to broadcast some data (a block) to all other nodes. This
procedure should have low latency, utilize the bandwidth of the network in
a balanced way, and be resilient to transmission failures. The block should
be produced and transmitted in a streaming manner, that is, the leader does
not need to wait until the entire block is constructed.
leader
shred-1 relay
v1 v2 . . . vn
shred-2 relay
v1 v2 . . . vn
. . . shred-Γ relay
v1 v2 . . . vn
Figure 3: Basic structure of the Rotor data dissemination protocol.
Intiuition
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
A leader uses multiple rounds of the Rotor protocol to broadcast a block.
Each round considers the independent transmission of one slice of the block.
The leader transmits each slice as soon as it is ready. This achieves pipelining
of block production and transmission.
For each slice, the leader generates Γ Reed-Solomon coding shreds and
constructs a Merkle tree over their hashes and signs the root. Each coding
shred includes the Merkle path along with the root signature. Each shred
contains as much data and corresponding metadata as can fit into a single
UDP datagram.
Using Reed-Solomon erasure coding [RS60] ensures that, at the cost of
sending more data, receiving any γ shreds is enough to reconstruct the slice
(Section 1.6). After that, as an additional validity check, a receiver generates
the (up to Γ − γ) missing shreds.
For any given slice, the leader sends each shred directly to a corresponding
node selected as shred relay. We sample relays for every slice. We use a novel
sampling method which improves resilience. We describe our new method in
detail in Section 3.1.
Each relay then broadcasts its shred to all nodes that still need it, i.e., all
nodes except for the leader and itself, in decreasing stake order. As a minor
optimization, all shred relays send their shred to the next leader first. This
slightly improves latency for the next leader, who most urgently needs the
block.
A shred’s authenticity needs to be checked to reconstruct the slice from γ
of the shreds. To enable receivers to cheaply check authenticity of each shred
individually, the leader builds a Merkle tree [Mer79] over all shreds of a slice,
as described in Section 1.6. Each shred then includes its path in the tree and
the leader’s signature of the root of the tree.
When receiving the first shred of a slice, a node checks the validity of the
Merkle path and the leader’s signature, and then stores the verified root. For
any later shred, the receiving node only checks the validity of the Merkle path
against the stored root.
Protocol
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
64 80 96 320
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Total shreds (Γ)
Latency [ms]
Average Rotor Latency ( γ = 32)
64 80 96 320
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Total shreds (Γ)
Latency [ms]
Median Rotor Latency ( γ = 32)
Figure 4: Rotor latency for different data expansion ratios (and thus total
numbers of shreds), all with γ = 32 data shreds using our sampling from
Section 3.1. The red lines indicate the average/median network latency. With
a high data expansion rate ( κ = 10, hence Γ = 320) we pretty much achieve
the single δ latency described in Lemma 8. All our simulation results use the
current (epoch 780) Solana stake distribution. Network latency is inferred
from public data. Computation and transmission delays are omitted.
Definition 6. Given a slot s, we say that Rotor is successful if the leader of
s is correct, and at least γ of the corresponding relays are correct.
Resilience. If the conditions of Definition 6 are met, all correct nodes will
receive the block distributed by the leader, as enough relays are correct. On
the other hand, a faulty leader can simply not send any data, and Rotor will
immediately fail. In the following we assume that the leader is correct. The
following lemma shows that Rotor is likely to succeed if we over-provision the
coding shreds by at least 67%.
Lemma 7 (rotor resilience) . Assume that the leader is correct, and that
erasure coding over-provisioning is at least κ = Γ/γ > 5/3. If γ → ∞ , with
probability 1, a slice is received correctly.
Proof Sketch. We choose the relay nodes randomly, according to stake. The
failure probability of each relay is less than 40% according to Section 1.2. The
expected value of correct relays is then at least 60% · Γ > 60% · 5γ/3 = γ. So
strictly more than γ shreds will arrive in expectation. With γ → ∞, applying
an appropriate Chernoff bound, with probability 1 we will have at least γ
shreds that correctly arrive at all nodes.
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
Latency. The latency of Rotor is between δ and 2δ, depending on whether
we make optimistic or pessimistic assumptions on various parameters.
Lemma 8. (rotor latency) If Rotor succeeds, network latency of Rotor is at
most 2δ. A high over-provisioning factor κ can reduce latency. In the extreme
case with n → ∞ and κ → ∞, we can bring network latency down to δ. (See
also Figure 4 for simulation results with Solana’s stake distribution.)
Proof Sketch. Assuming a correct leader, all relays receive their shred in time
δ directly from the leader. The correct relays then send their shred to the
nodes in another time δ, so in time 2 δ in total.
If we over-provision the relays, chances are that many correct relays are
geographically located between leader and the receiving node. In the extreme
case with infinitely many relays, and some natural stake distribution assump-
tions, there will be at least γ correct relays between any pair of leader and
receiving node. If the relays are on the direct path between leader and re-
ceiver, they do not add any overhead, and both legs of the trip just sum up
to δ.
Bandwidth. Both the leader and the shred relays are sampled by stake. As
a result, in expectation each node has to transmit data proportional to their
stake. This aligns well with the fact that staking rewards are also proportional
to the nodes’ stake. If the available out-bandwidth is proportional to stake,
it can be utilized perfectly apart from the overhead.
Lemma 9 (bandwidth optimality). Assume a fixed leader sending data at
rate βℓ ≤ ¯β, where ¯β is the average outgoing bandwidth across all nodes.
Suppose any distribution of out-bandwidth and proportional node stake. Then,
at every correct node, Rotor delivers block data at rate βℓ/κ in expectation.
Up to the data expansion rate κ = Γ/γ, this is optimal.
Proof. Node vi is chosen to be a shred relay in expectation Γ ρi times. Each
shred relay receives data from the leader with bandwidth βℓ/Γ, because the
leader splits its bandwidth across all shred relays. Hence, in expectation,
node vi receives data from the leader at rate Γρi · βℓ/Γ = ρiβℓ. Node vi needs
to forward this data to n − 2 nodes. So, in expectation, node vi needs to send
data at rate ρiβℓ(n − 2). Node vi has outgoing bandwidth βi = n ¯βρi, since
outgoing bandwidth is proportional to stake (Section 1.5). Since βℓ ≤ ¯β, we
have ρiβℓ(n − 2) < β i. Each node thus has enough outgoing bandwidth to
support the data they need to send.
Note that we cannot get above rate βℓ because the leader is the only one
who knows the data. Likewise we cannot get above rate ¯β, because all nodes
need to receive the data, and the nodes can send with no more total rate than
n ¯β. So apart from the data expansion factor κ, we are optimal.
Note that any potential attacks on Rotor may only impact liveness, not
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
safety, since the other parts of Alpenglow ensure safety even under asynchrony
and rely on Rotor only for data dissemination.
Analysis
2.3 Blokstor
Blokstor collects and stores the first block received through Rotor in every
slot, as described in Definition 10.
Definition 10 (Blokstor). The Blokstor is a data structure managing the
storage of slices disseminated by the protocol of Section 2.2. When a shred
(s, t, i, zt, rt, (di, πi), σt) is received by a node, the node checks the following
conditions. If the conditions are satisfied, the shred is added to the Blokstor:
• the Blokstor does not contain a shred for indices (s, t, i) yet,
• (di, πi) is the data with path for Merkle root rt at position i,
• σt is the signature of the object Slice(s, t, zt, rt) from the node leader(s).
Blokstor emits the event Block(slot(b), hash(b), hash(parent(b))) as input
for Algorithm 1 when it receives the first complete block b for slot(b).
In addition to storing the first block received for a given slot, the Blokstor
can perform the repair procedure (Section 2.8) to collect some other block b
and store it in the Blokstor. If a block is finalized according to Definition 14,
Blokstor has to collect and store only this block in the given slot. Otherwise,
before the event SafeToNotar(slot(b), hash(b)) of Definition 16 is emitted, b
has to be stored in the Blokstor as well.
Protocol
2.4 Votes and Certificates
Next we describe the voting data structures and algorithms of Alpenglow.
In a nutshell, if a leader gets at least 80% of the stake to vote for its block, the
block is immediately finalized after one round of voting with a fast-finalization
certificate. However, as soon as a node observes 60% of stake voting for a
block, it issues its second-round vote. After 60% of stake voted for a block the
second time, the block is also finalized. On the other hand, if enough stake
considers the block late, a skip certificate can be produced, and the block
proposal will be skipped.
Intiuition
Definition 11 (messages). Alpenglow uses voting and certificate messages
listed in Tables 5 and 6.
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
Vote Type Object
Notarization Vote NotarVote(slot(b), hash(b))
Notar-Fallback Vote NotarFallbackVote(slot(b), hash(b))
Skip Vote SkipVote(s)
Skip-Fallback Vote SkipFallbackVote(s)
Finalization Vote FinalVote(s)
Table 5: Alpenglow’s voting messages with respect to block b and slot s. Each
object is signed by a signature σv of the voting node v.
Certificate Type Aggregated Votes Condition
Fast-Finalization Cert. NotarVote Σ ≥ 80%
Notarization Cert. NotarVote Σ ≥ 60%
Notar-Fallback Cert. NotarVote or NotarFallbackVote Σ ≥ 60%
Skip Cert. SkipVote or SkipFallbackVote Σ ≥ 60%
Finalization Cert. FinalVote Σ ≥ 60%
Table 6: Alpenglow’s certificate messages. Σ is the cumulative stake of the
aggregated votes (σi)I⊆{1,...,n} in the certificate, i.e., Σ = P
i∈I ρi.
Protocol
2.5 Pool
Every node maintains a data structure called Pool. In its Pool, each node
memorizes all votes and certificates for every slot.
Definition 12 (storing votes). Pool stores received votes for every slot and
every node as follows:
• The first received notarization or skip vote,
• up to 3 received notar-fallback votes,
• the first received skip-fallback vote, and
• the first received finalization vote.
Definition 13 (certificates). Pool generates, stores and broadcasts certifi-
cates:
• When enough votes (see Table 6) are received, the respective certificate
is generated.
• When a received or constructed certificate is newly added to Pool, the
certificate is broadcast to all other nodes.
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
• A single (received or constructed) certificate of each type corresponding
to the given block/slot is stored in Pool.
Note that the conditions in Table 6 imply that if a correct node generated
the Fast-Finalization Certificate, it also generated the Notarization Certifi-
cate, which in turn implies it generated the Notar-Fallback Certificate.
Definition 14 (finalization). We have two ways to finalize a block:
• If a finalization certificate on slot s is in Pool, the unique notarized block
in slot s is finalized (we call this slow-finalized).
• If a fast-finalization certificate on block b is in Pool, the block b is final-
ized (fast-finalized).
Whenever a block is finalized (slow or fast), all ancestors of the block are
finalized first.
Definition 15 (Pool events). The following events are emitted as input for
Algorithm 1:
• BlockNotarized(slot(b), hash(b)): Pool holds a notarization certificate for
block b.
• ParentReady(s, hash(b)): Slot s is the first of its leader window, and Pool
holds a notarization or notar-fallback certificate for a previous block b,
and skip certificates for every slot s′ since b, i.e., for slot(b) < s ′ < s.
Protocol
As we will see later (Lemmas 20 and 35), for every slot s, every cor-
rect node will cast exactly one notarization or skip vote. After casting this
initial vote, the node might emit events according to Definition 16 and cast
additional votes.
The event SafeToNotar(s, b) indicates that it is not possible that some
block b′ ̸= b could be fast-finalized (Definition 14) in slot s, and so it is safe
to issue the notar-fallback vote for b.
Similarly, SafeToSkip(s) indicates that it is not possible that any block
in slot s could be fast-finalized (Definition 14), and so it is safe to issue the
skip-fallback vote for s.
Intiuition
Definition 16 (fallback events). Consider block b in slot s = slot(b). By
notar(b) denote the cumulative stake of nodes whose notarization votes for
block b are in Pool, and by skip(s) denote the cumulative stake of nodes whose
skip votes for slot s are in Pool. Recall that by Definition 12 the stake of any
node can be counted only once per slot. The following events are emitted as
input for Algorithm 1:
• SafeToNotar(s, hash(b)): The event is only issued if the node voted in
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
slot s already, but not to notarize b. Moreover:
notar(b) ≥ 40% or

skip(s) + notar(b) ≥ 60% and notar(b) ≥ 20%

.
If s is the first slot in the leader window, the event is emitted. Otherwise,
block b is retrieved in the repair procedure (Section 2.8) first, in order
to identify the parent of the block. Then, the event is emitted when Pool
contains the notar-fallback certificate for the parent as well.
• SafeToSkip(s): The event is only issued if the node voted in slot s al-
ready, but not to skip s. Moreover:
skip(s) +
X
b
notar(b) − max
b
notar(b) ≥ 40%.
Protocol
2.6 Votor
Leader sends
Relays send
Notar. votes
Final. votes
notarization
fast-finalization
slow-finalization
Figure 7: Protocol overview: a full common case life cycle of a block in
Alpenglow.
The purpose of voting is to notarize and finalize blocks. Finalized blocks
constitute a single chain of parent references and indicate the output of the
protocol.
The protocol ensures that for every slot, either a skip certificate is created,
or some block b is notarized (or notarized-fallback), such that all ancestors
of b are also notarized. Condition thresholds ensure that a malicious leader
cannot prevent the creation of certificates needed for liveness. If many correct
nodes produced notarization votes for the same block b, then all other correct
nodes will make notar-fallback votes for b. Otherwise, all correct nodes will
broadcast skip-fallback votes.
By Definition 14, a node can finalize a block as soon as it observes enough
notarization votes produced by other nodes immediately upon receiving a
block. However, a lower participation threshold is required to make a nota-
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
rization certificate. Then the node will send the finalization vote. Therefore,
blocks are finalized after one round of voting among nodes with 80% of the
stake, or two rounds of voting among nodes with 60% of the stake.
Nodes have local clocks and emit timeout events. Whenever a node v’s
Pool emits the event ParentReady(s, . . .), it starts timeout timers correspond-
ing to all blocks of the leader window beginning with slot s. The timeouts
are parametrized with two delays (pertaining to network synchrony):
• ∆block: This denotes the protocol-specified block time.
• ∆timeout: Denotes the rest of the possible delay (other than ∆ block) be-
tween setting the timeouts and receiving a correctly disseminated block.
As a conservative global constant, ∆ timeout can be set to (1∆ + 2∆) >
(time needed for the leader to observe the certificates) + (latency of
slice dissemination through Rotor).
Intuition
Definition 17 (timeout). When a node v’s Pool emits the first event Parent-
Ready(s, . . .), Timeout(i) events for the leader window beginning with s (for
all i ∈ windowSlots(s)) are scheduled at the following times:
Timeout(i) : clock() + ∆timeout + (i − s + 1) · ∆block.
The timeouts are set to correspond to the latest possible time of receiving
a block if the leader is correct and the network is synchronous. Timeouts can
be optimized, e.g., by fine-grained ∆ estimation or to address specific faults,
such as crash faults.
Note that ParentReady(s, . . .) is only emitted for the first slot s of a win-
dow. Therefore, ( i − s + 1) ≥ 1 and Timeout(i) is never scheduled to be
emitted in the past.
Definition 18 (Votor state). Votor (Algorithms 1 and 2) accesses state as-
sociated with each slot. The state of every slot is initialized to the empty set:
state ← [∅, ∅, . . .]. The following objects can be permanently added to the state
of any slot s:
• ParentReady(hash(b)): Pool emitted the event ParentReady(s, hash(b)).
• Voted: The node has cast either a notarization vote or a skip vote in
slot s.
• VotedNotar(hash(b)): The node has cast a notarization vote on block b
in slot s.
• BlockNotarized(hash(b)): Pool holds the notarization certificate for block
b in slot s.
• ItsOver: The node has cast the finalization vote in slot s, and will not
cast any more votes in slot s.
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
• BadWindow: The node has cast at least one of these votes in slot s: skip,
skip-fallback, notar-fallback.
Additionally, every slot can be associated with a pending block, which is
initialized to bottom: pendingBlocks ← [⊥, ⊥, . . .]. The pendingBlocks are
blocks which will be revisited to call tryNotar(), as the tested condition
might be met later.
Protocol
Algorithm 1 Votor, event loop, single-threaded
1: upon Block(s, hash, hashparent) do
2: if tryNotar(Block(s, hash, hashparent)) then
3: checkPendingBlocks()
4: else if Voted ̸∈ state[s] then
5: pendingBlocks[s] ← Block(s, hash, hashparent)
6: upon Timeout(s) do
7: if Voted ̸∈ state[s] then
8: trySkipWindow(s)
9: upon BlockNotarized(s, hash(b)) do
10: state[s] ← state[s] ∪ {BlockNotarized(hash(b))}
11: tryFinal(s, hash(b))
12: upon ParentReady(s, hash(b)) do
13: state[s] ← state[s] ∪ {ParentReady(hash(b))}
14: checkPendingBlocks()
15: setTimeouts(s) ▷ start timer for all slots in this window
16: upon SafeToNotar(s, hash(b)) do
17: trySkipWindow(s)
18: if ItsOver ̸∈ state[s] then
19: broadcast NotarFallbackVote(s, hash(b)) ▷ notar-fallback vote
20: state[s] ← state[s] ∪ {BadWindow}
21: upon SafeToSkip(s) do
22: trySkipWindow(s)
23: if ItsOver ̸∈ state[s] then
24: broadcast SkipFallbackVote(s) ▷ skip-fallback vote
25: state[s] ← state[s] ∪ {BadWindow}
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
Algorithm 2 Votor, helper functions
1: function windowSlots(s)
2: return array with slot numbers of the leader window with slot s
3: function setTimeouts(s) ▷ s is first slot of window
4: for i ∈ windowSlots(s) do ▷ set timeouts for all slots
5: schedule eventTimeout(i) at time clock()+∆timeout+(i−s+1)·∆block
6: ▷ Check if a notarization vote can be cast. ◁
7: function tryNotar(Block(s, hash, hashparent))
8: if Voted ∈ state[s] then
9: return false
10: firstSlot ← (s is the first slot in leader window) ▷ boolean
11: if (firstSlot and ParentReady(hashparent) ∈ state[s]
or (not firstSlot and VotedNotar(hashparent) ∈ state[s − 1]) then
12: broadcast NotarVote(s, hash) ▷ notarization vote
13: state[s] ← state[s] ∪ {Voted, VotedNotar(hash)}
14: pendingBlocks[s] ← ⊥ ▷ won’t vote notar a second time
15: tryFinal(s, hash) ▷ maybe vote finalize as well
16: return true
17: return false
18: function tryFinal(s, hash(b))
19: if BlockNotarized(hash(b)) ∈ state[s] and VotedNotar(hash(b)) ∈ state[s]
and BadWindow ̸∈ state[s] then
20: broadcast FinalVote(s) ▷ finalization vote
21: state[s] ← state[s] ∪ {ItsOver}
22: function trySkipWindow(s)
23: for k ∈ windowSlots(s) do ▷ skip unvoted slots
24: if Voted ̸∈ state[k] then
25: broadcast SkipVote(k) ▷ skip vote
26: state[k] ← state[k] ∪ {Voted, BadWindow}
27: pendingBlocks[k] ← ⊥ ▷ won’t vote notar after skip
28: function checkPendingBlocks()
29: for s : pendingBlocks[s] ̸= ⊥ do ▷ iterate with increasing s
30: tryNotar(pendingBlocks[s])
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
2.7 Block Creation
The leader v of the window beginning with slot s produces blocks for all
slots windowSlots(s) in the window. After the eventParentReady(s, hash(bp))
is emitted, v can be sure that a block b in slot s with bp as its parent will be
valid. In other words, other nodes will receive the certificates that resulted
in v emitting ParentReady(hash(bp)), and emit this event themselves. As a
result, all correct nodes will vote for b.
In the common case, only one ParentReady(s, hash(bp)) will be emitted for
a given s. Then, v has to build its block on top of bp and cannot “fork off”
the chain in any way. If v emits many ParentReady(s, hash(bp)) events for
different blocks bp (as a result of the previous leader misbehaving or network
delays), v can build its block with any such bp as its parent.
Algorithm 3 introduces an optimization where v starts building its block
“optimistically” before any ParentReady(s, hash(bp)) is emitted. Usually v
will receive some block bp in slot s − 1 first, then observe a certificate for bp
after additional network delay, and only then emit ParentReady(s, hash(bp)).
Algorithm 3 avoids this delay in the common case. If v started building
a block with parent bp, but then only emits ParentReady(s, hash(b′
p)) where
b′
p ̸= bp, v will then instead indicate b′
p as the parent of the block in the
content of some slice t. In this case, slices 1 , . . . , t − 1 are ignored for the
purpose of execution.
We allow changing the indicated parent of a block only once, and only in
blocks in the first slot of a given window.
When a leader already observed some ParentReady(s, . . .), the leader pro-
duces all blocks of its leader window without delays. As a result, the first block
b0 always builds on some parentbp such that v emitted ParentReady(s, hash(bp)),
b0 is the parent of the block b1 in slot s + 1, b1 is the parent of the block b2
in slot s + 2, and so on.
ParentReady(s, b1)bk
1
· · ·b1
2 b2
2 b3
2 bk
2
ParentReady(s, b′
1)
b2 starts here with a different parent b′
1
bk
1
· · ·b1
2 b2
2 b3
2 bk
2
Figure 8: Handover between leader windows with k slices per block. The
new leader starts to produce the first slice of its first block ( b1
2) as soon as
it received the last slice ( bk
1) of the previous leader. The common case is
on top and the case where leader switches parents at the bottom, see also
Algorithm 3.
Protocol
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
Algorithm 3 Block creation for leader window starting with slot s
1: wait until block bp in slot s−1 received or ParentReady(hash(bp)) ∈ state[s]
2: b ← generate a block with parent bp in slot s ▷ block being produced
3: t ← 1 ▷ slice index
4: while ParentReady(. . .) ̸∈ state[s] do ▷ produce slices optimistically
5: Rotor(slice t of b)
6: t ← t + 1
7: if ParentReady(hash(bp)) ̸∈ state[s] then ▷ change parent, reset block
8: bp ← any b′ such that ParentReady(hash(b′)) ∈ state[s]
9: b ← generate a block with parent bp in slot s starting with slice index t
10: start ← clock() ▷ some parent is ready, set timeout
11: while clock() < start + ∆block do ▷ produce rest of block in normal slot time
12: Rotor(slice t of b)
13: t ← t + 1
14: for remaining slots of the window s′ = s + 1, s + 2, . . . do
15: b ← generate a block with parent b in slot s′
16: Rotor(b) over ∆block
2.8 Repair
Repair is the process of retrieving a block with a given hash that is
missing from Blokstor. After Pool obtains a certificate of signatures on
Notar(slot(b), hash(b)) or NotarFallback(slot(b), hash(b)), the block b with hash
hash(b) according to Definition 4 needs to be retrieved.
Definition 19 (repair functions) . The protocol supports functions for the
repair process:
• sampleNode(): Choose some node v at random based on stake.
• getSliceCount(hash(b), v): Contact node v, which returns (k, rk, πk) where:
– k is the number of slices of b as in Definition 4,
– rk is the hash at position k with path πk for Merkle root hash(b).
The requesting node needs to make sure rk is the last non-zero leaf of the
Merkle tree with root hash(b). It verifies that the rightward intermediate
hashes in πk correspond to empty sub-trees.
• getSliceHash(t, hash(b), v): Contact node v, which returns (rt, πt) where
rt is the hash at position t with path πt for Merkle root hash(b).
• getShred(s, t, i, rt, v): Contact node v, which returns the shred (s, t, i, zt,
rt, (di, πi), σt) as in Definition 1.
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
The functions can fail verification of the data provided by v and return ⊥
(e.g. if invalid data is returned or v simply does not have the correct data to
return).
Protocol
Algorithm 4 Repair block b with hash(b) in slot s
1: k ← ⊥
2: while k = ⊥ do ▷ find the number of slices k in b
3: (k, rk, πk) ← getSliceCount(hash(b), sampleNode())
4: for t = 1, . . . , k concurrently do
5: while rt = ⊥ do ▷ get slice hash rt if missing
6: (rt, πt) ← getSliceHash(t, hash(b), sampleNode())
7: for each shred index i concurrently do
8: while shred with indices s, t, i missing do ▷ get shred if missing
9: shred ← getShred(s, t, i, rt, sampleNode())
10: store shred if valid
2.9 Safety
In the following analysis, whenever we say that a certificate exists, we
mean that a correct node observed the certificate. Whenever we say that an
ancestor b′ of a block b exists in some slot s = slot(b′), we mean that starting
at block b and following the parent links in blocks with the given hash we
reach block b′ in slot s = slot(b′).
Lemma 20 (notarization or skip). A correct node exclusively casts only one
notarization vote or skip vote per slot.
Proof. Notarization votes and skip votes are only cast via functionstryNotar()
and trySkipWindow() of Algorithm 2, respectively. Votes are only cast if
Voted ̸∈ state[s]. After voting, the state is modified so that Voted ∈ state[s].
Therefore, a notarization or skip vote can only be cast once per slot by a
correct node.
Lemma 21 (fast-finalization property). If a block b is fast-finalized:
(i) no other block b′ in the same slot can be notarized,
(ii) no other block b′ in the same slot can be notarized-fallback,
(iii) there cannot exist a skip certificate for the same slot.
Proof. Suppose some correct node fast-finalized some block b in slot s. By
Definition 14, nodes holding at least 80% of stake cast notarization votes
for b. Recall (Assumption 1) that all byzantine nodes hold less than 20% of
stake. Therefore, a set V of correct nodes holding more than 60% of stake
cast notarization votes for b.
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
(i) By Lemma 20, nodes in V cannot cast a skip vote or a notarization vote
for a different block b′ ̸= b. Therefore, the collective stake of nodes casting a
notarization vote for b′ has to be smaller than 40%.
(ii) Correct nodes only cast notar-fallback votes in Algorithm 1 when
Pool emits the event SafeToNotar. By Definition 16, a correct node emits
SafeToNotar(s, hash(b′)), if either a) at least 40% of stake holders voted to
notarize b′, or b) at least 60% of stake holders voted to notarize b′ or skip slot
s. Only nodes v /∈ V holding less than 40% of stake can vote to notarize b′
or skip slot s. Therefore, no correct nodes can vote to notar-fallback b′.
(iii) Skip-fallback votes are only cast in Algorithm 1 by correct nodes if
Pool emits the event SafeToSkip. By Definition 16, a correct node can emit
SafeToSkip if at least 40% of stake have cast a skip vote or a notarization vote
on b′ ̸= b in slot s. Only nodes v /∈ V holding less than 40% of stake can cast
a skip vote or a notarization vote on b′ ̸= b in slot s. Therefore, no correct
nodes vote to skip-fallback, and no nodes in V vote to skip or skip-fallback
slot s.
Lemma 22. If a correct node v cast a finalization vote in slot s, then v did
not cast a notar-fallback or skip-fallback vote in s.
Proof. A correct node adds ItsOver to its state of slot s in line 21 of Algo-
rithm 2 when casting a finalization vote. Notar-fallback or skip-fallback votes
can only be cast if ItsOver ̸∈ state[s] in lines 18 and 23 of Algorithm 1 respec-
tively. Therefore, notar-fallback and skip-fallback votes cannot be cast by v
in slot s after casting a finalization vote in slot s.
On the other hand, a correct node adds BadWindow to its state of slot s
when casting a notar-fallback or skip-fallback vote in slot s. A finalization
vote can only be cast if BadWindow ̸∈ state[s] in line 19 of Algorithm 2.
Therefore, a finalization vote cannot be cast by v in slot s after casting a
notar-fallback and skip-fallback vote in slot s.
Lemma 23. If correct nodes with more than 40% of stake cast notarization
votes for block b in slot s, no other block can be notarized in slot s.
Proof. Let V be the set of correct nodes that cast notarization votes for b.
Suppose for contradiction some b′ ̸= b in slot s is notarized. Since 60% of
stake holders had to cast notarization votes for b′ (Definition 11), there is
a node v ∈ V that cast notarization votes for both b and b′, contradicting
Lemma 20.
Lemma 24. At most one block can be notarized in a given slot.
Proof. Suppose a block b is notarized. Since 60% of stake holders had to cast
notarization votes for b (Definition 11) and we assume all byzantine nodes
hold less than 20% of stake, then correct nodes with more than 40% of stake
cast notarization votes for b. By Lemma 23, no block b′ ̸= b in the same slot
can be notarized.
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
Lemma 25. If a block is finalized by a correct node, the block is also notarized.
Proof. If b was fast-finalized by some correct node, nodes with at least 80% of
the stake cast their notarization votes forb. Since byzantine nodes possess less
than 20% of stake, correct nodes with more than 60% of stake broadcast their
notarization votes, and correct nodes will observe a notarization certificate
for b.
If b was slow-finalized by some correct node, nodes with at least 60% of
stake cast their finalization vote for b (Def. 11 and 14), including some correct
nodes. Correct nodes cast finalization votes only if BlockNotarized(hash(b)) ∈
state[s] in line 19 of Algorithm 2 after they observe some notarization certifi-
cate. By Lemma 24, this notarization certificate has to be for b.
Lemma 26 (slow-finalization property). If a block b is slow-finalized:
(i) no other block b′ in the same slot can be notarized,
(ii) no other block b′ in the same slot can be notarized-fallback,
(iii) there cannot exist a skip certificate for the same slot.
Proof. Suppose some correct node slow-finalized some block b in slot s. By
Definition 14, nodes holding at least 60% of stake cast finalization votes in
slot s. Recall that we assume all byzantine nodes to hold less than 20% of
stake. Therefore, a set V of correct nodes holding more than 40% of stake cast
finalization votes in slot s. By condition in line 19 of Algorithm 2, nodes in
V observed a notarization certificate for some block. By Lemma 24, all nodes
in V observed a notarization certificate for the same block b, and because of
the condition in line 19, all nodes in V previously cast a notarization vote for
b. By Lemmas 20 and 22, all nodes in V cast no votes in slot s other than
the notarization vote for b and the finalization vote. Since nodes in V hold
more than 40% of stake, and every certificate requires at least 60% of stake
holder votes, no skip certificate or certificate on another block b′ ̸= b in slot
s can be produced.
Lemma 27. If there exists a notarization or notar-fallback certificate for
block b, then some correct node cast its notarization vote for b.
Proof. Suppose for contradiction no correct node cast its notarization vote for
b. Since byzantine nodes possess less than 20% of stake, every correct node
observed less than 20% of stake voting to notarize b. Both sub-conditions for
emitting the event SafeToNotar(s, hash(b)) by Definition 16 require observ-
ing 20% of stake voting to notarize b. Therefore, no correct node emitted
SafeToNotar(s, hash(b)). In Algorithm 1, emitting SafeToNotar(s, hash(b)) is
the only trigger that might lead to casting a notar-fallback vote for b. There-
fore, no correct node cast a notar-fallback vote for b. However, at least 60%
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
of stake has to cast a notarization or notar-fallback vote for b for a certificate
to exist (Definition 11), leading to a contradiction.
Lemma 28. If a correct node v cast the notarization vote for block b in slot
s = slot(b), then for every slot s′ ≤ s such that s′ ∈ windowSlots(s), v cast
the notarization vote for the ancestor b′ of b in slot s′ = slot(b′).
Proof. If s is the first slot of the leader window, there are no slots s′ < s in
the same window. Since v voted for b in s we are done. Suppose s is not the
first slot of the window.
Due to the condition in line 11 of Algorithm 2, v had to evaluate the lat-
ter leg of the condition (namely ( not firstSlot and VotedNotar(hashparent) ∈
state[s−1])) to true to cast a notarization vote forb. The object VotedNotar(hash)
is added to the state of slot s − 1 only when casting a notarization vote on a
block with the given hash in line 13. By induction, v cast notarization votes
for ancestors of b in all slots s′ < s in the same leader window.
Lemma 29. Suppose a correct node v cast a notar-fallback vote for a block
b in slot s that is not the first slot of the window, and b′ is the parent of b.
Then, either some correct node cast a notar-fallback vote for b′, or correct
nodes with more than 40% of stake cast notarization votes for b′.
Proof. SafeToNotar conditions (Definition 16) require that v observed a nota-
rization or notar-fallback certificate for b′, and so nodes with at least 60% of
stake cast notarization or notar-fallback votes for b′. Since byzantine nodes
possess less than 20% of stake, either correct nodes with more than 40% of
stake cast notarization votes for b′, or some correct node cast a notar-fallback
vote for b′.
Lemma 30. Suppose a block b in slot s is notarized or notarized-fallback.
Then, for every slot s′ ≤ s such that s′ ∈ windowSlots(s), there is an
ancestor b′ of b in slot s′. Moreover, either correct nodes with more than
40% of stake cast notarization votes for b′, or some correct node cast a notar-
fallback vote for b′.
Proof. By Lemma 27, some correct node voted for b. By Lemma 28, for every
slot s′ ≤ s such that s′ ∈ windowSlots(s), there is an ancestor b′ of b in
slot s′.
Let b′ be the parent of b in slot s − 1. Suppose correct nodes with more
than 40% of stake cast notarization votes for b′. Then, the result follows by
Lemma 28 applied to each of these nodes.
Otherwise, by Lemma 29, either some correct node cast a notar-fallback
vote for b′, or correct nodes with more than 40% of stake cast notarization
votes for b′. By induction, the result follows for all ancestors of b in the same
leader window.
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
Lemma 31. Suppose some correct node finalizes a blockbi and bk is a block in
the same leader window with slot(bi) ≤ slot(bk). If any correct node observes
a notarization or notar-fallback certificate for bk, bk is a descendant of bi.
Proof. Suppose bk is not a descendant of bi. By Lemmas 21 and 26, slot(bi) ̸=
slot(bk). Therefore, slot(bi) < slot(bk) and bk is not in the first slot of the
leader window. By Lemmas 27 and 25, some correct nodev cast a notarization
vote for bk. By Lemma 28, there is an ancestor of bk in every slot s′ < slot(bk)
in the same leader window.
Let bj be the ancestor of bk in slot slot(bi) + 1. bk is not a descendant of
bi, so the parent b′
i of bj in the same slot as bi is different from bi.
By Lemma 30, either correct nodes with more than 40% of stake cast
notarization votes for bj, or some correct node cast a notar-fallback vote for
bj. If a correct node cast a notar-fallback vote for bj, by Definition 16, the
parent b′
i of bj in the same slot as bi is notarized, or notarized-fallback. That
would be a contradiction with Lemma 21 or 26. Otherwise, if correct nodes
with more than 40% of stake cast notarization votes forbj, by Lemma 28, these
nodes also cast notarization votes for b′
i, a contradiction with Lemma 23.
Lemma 32. Suppose some correct node finalizes a block bi and bk is a block
in a different leader window such that slot(bi) < slot(bk). If any correct node
observes a notarization or notar-fallback certificate for bk, bk is a descendant
of bi.
Proof. Let bj be the highest ancestor of bk such that slot(bi) ≤ slot(bj) and
bj is notarized or notarized-fallback. If bj is in the same leader window as
bi, we are done by Lemma 31; assume bj is not in the same leader win-
dow as bi. By Lemmas 27 and 28, some correct node v cast a notariza-
tion vote for an ancestor b′
j of bj in the first slot s of the same leader win-
dow. Due to the condition in line 11 of Algorithm 2, v had to evaluate
the former leg of the condition (namely firstSlot and ParentReady(hash(b)) ∈
state[s]) to true (with s = slot(b′
j)) to cast a notarization vote for b′
j, where
b is the parent of b′
j. ParentReady(hash(b)) is added to state[s] only when
ParentReady(s, hash(b)) is emitted. Note that by Definition 15, if a correct
node has emitted ParentReady(s, hash(b)), then b is notarized or notarized-
fallback. If slot(b) < slot(bi), by Definition 15 Pool holds a skip certificate
for slot(bi), contradicting Lemma 21 or 26. If slot(b) = slot(bi), since b is
notarized or notarized-fallback, again Lemma 21 or 26 is violated. Due to
choice of bj, slot(bi) < slot(b) is also impossible.
Theorem 1 (safety). If any correct node finalizes a block b in slot s and any
correct node finalizes any block b′ in any slot s′ ≥ s, b′ is a descendant of b.
Proof. By Lemma 25, b′ is also notarized. By Lemmas 31 and 32, b′ is a
descendant of b.
Analysis
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
2.10 Liveness
Lemma 33. If a correct node emits the event ParentReady(s, . . .), then for
every slot k in the leader window beginning with s the node will emit the event
Timeout(k).
Proof. The handler of event ParentReady(s, . . .) in line 12 of Algorithm 1 calls
the function setTimeouts(s) which schedules the eventTimeout(k) for every
slot k of the leader window containing s (i.e., k ∈ windowSlots(s)).
If a node scheduled the event Timeout(k), we say that it set the timeout
for slot k.
Since the function setTimeouts(s) is called only in the handler of the
event ParentReady(s, . . .) in Algorithm 1, we can state the following corollary:
Corollary 34. If a node sets a timeout for slot s, the node emitted an
event ParentReady(s′, hash(b)), where s′ is the first slot of the leader window
windowSlots(s).
Lemma 35. If all correct nodes set the timeout for slot s, all correct nodes
will cast a notarization vote or skip vote in slot s.
Proof. For any correct node that set the timeout for slots, the handler of event
Timeout(s) in line 6 of Algorithm 1 will call the functiontrySkipWindow(s),
unless Voted ∈ state[s]. Next, either Voted ̸∈ state[s] in line 24 of Algorithm 2,
and the node casts a skip vote in slot s, or Voted ∈ state[s]. The object Voted
is added to state[s] only when the node cast a notarization or skip vote in slot
s, and therefore the node must have cast either vote.
Lemma 36. If no set of correct nodes with more than 40% of stake cast their
notarization votes for the same block in slot s, no correct node will add the
object ItsOver to state[s].
Proof. Object ItsOver is only added to state[s] in line 21 of Algorithm 2 after
testing that BlockNotarized(hash(b)) ∈ state[s]. The object BlockNotarized(hash(b))
is only added to state[s] when the event BlockNotarized(s, hash(b)) is handled
in Algorithm 1. By Definition 15, Pool needs to hold a notarization certificate
for b to emit the event. The certificate requires that 60% of stake voted to
notarize b (Def. 11). Since we assume that byzantine nodes hold less than
20% of stake, correct nodes with more than 40% of stake need to cast their
notarization votes for the same block in slot s for any correct node to add the
object ItsOver to state[s].
Lemma 37. If all correct nodes set the timeout for slot s, either the skip
certificate for s is eventually observed by all correct nodes, or correct nodes
with more than 40% of stake cast notarization votes for the same block in slot
s.
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
Proof. Suppose no set of correct nodes with more than 40% of stake cast their
notarization votes for the same block in slot s.
Since all correct nodes set the timeout for slot s, by Lemma 35, all correct
nodes will observe skip votes or notarization votes in slot s from a set S of
correct nodes with at least 80% of stake (Assumption 1).
Consider any correct node v ∈ S. As in Definition 16, by notar(b) denote
the cumulative stake of nodes whose notarization votes for block b in slot
s = slot(b) are in v’s Pool, and by skip(s) denote the cumulative stake of
nodes whose skip votes for slot s are in Pool of v. Let w be the stake of
nodes outside of S whose notarization or skip vote v observed. Then, after v
received votes of nodes in S: skip(s) +P
b notar(b) = 80% + w. Since no set
of correct nodes with more than 40% of stake cast their notarization votes for
the same block in slot s, maxb notar(b) ≤ 40% + w. Therefore,
skip(s) +
X
b
notar(b) − max
b
notar(b) =
80% + w − max
b
notar(b) ≥
80% + w − (40% + w) = 40%.
Therefore, if v has not cast a skip vote fors, v will emit the eventSafeToSkip(s).
By Lemma 36, v will test that ItsOver ̸∈ state[s] in line 23 of Algorithm 1,
and cast a skip-fallback vote for s.
Therefore, all correct node will cast a skip or skip-fallback vote for s and
observe a skip certificate for s.
Lemma 38. If correct nodes with more than 40% of stake cast notarization
votes for block b, all correct nodes will observe a notar-fallback certificate for
b.
Proof. Reason by induction on the difference between slot(b) and the first slot
in windowSlots(slot(b)).
Suppose slot(b) is the first slot in the window. Suppose for contradiction
some correct node v will not cast a notarization or notar-fallback vote for b.
Since v will observe the notarization votes of correct nodes with more than
40% of stake, by Definition 16 v will emit SafeToNotar(slot(b), hash(b)).
The object ItsOver is added to state[slot(b)] in line 21 of Algorithm 2 after
casting a finalization vote. The condition in line 19 ensures that v cast a
notarization vote for a notarized block b′. However, by Lemma 23, there can
be no such b′ ̸= b in the same slot, and v has not cast the notarization vote
for b.
When triggered by SafeToNotar(slot(b), hash(b)), v will test that ItsOver ̸∈
state[s] in line 18 and cast the notar-fallback vote for b, a contradiction.
Therefore, all correct nodes will cast a notarization or notar-fallback vote
for b, and observe a notar-fallback certificate for b.
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
Next, suppose slot(b) is not the first slot in the window and assume the
induction hypothesis holds for the previous slot.
Suppose for contradiction some correct node v will not cast a notarization
or notar-fallback vote for b. Since v will observe the notarization votes of
correct nodes with more than 40% of stake, by Definition 16 v will retrieve
block b and identify its parent b′. By Lemma 28, the correct nodes that
cast notarization votes for b also voted for b′, and slot(b′) = slot(b) − 1. By
induction hypothesis, v will observe a notar-fallback certificate for b′, and
emit SafeToNotar(slot(b), hash(b)). Identically to the argument above, v will
cast the notar-fallback vote for b, causing a contradiction.
Therefore, all correct nodes will cast a notarization or notar-fallback vote
for b, and observe a notar-fallback certificate for b.
Lemma 39. If all correct nodes set the timeouts for slots of the leader window
windowSlots(s), then for every slot s′ ∈ windowSlots(s) all correct nodes
will observe a notar-fallback certificate for b in slot s′ = slot(b), or a skip
certificate for s′.
Proof. If correct nodes observe skip certificates in all slotss′ ∈ windowSlots(s),
we are done. Otherwise, let s′ ∈ windowSlots(s) be any slot for which a
correct node will not observe a skip certificate. By Lemma 37, there is a block
b in slot s′ = slot(b) such that correct nodes with more than 40% of stake
cast the notarization vote for b. By Lemma 38, correct nodes will observe a
notar-fallback certificate for b.
Lemma 40. If all correct nodes set the timeouts for slots windowSlots(s),
then all correct nodes will emit the event ParentReady(s+, . . .), where s+ > s
is the first slot of the following leader window.
Proof. Consider two cases:
(i) all correct nodes observe skip certificates for all slots inwindowSlots(s);
(ii) some correct node does not observe a skip certificate for some slot s′ ∈
windowSlots(s).
(i) Consider some correct node v. By Corollary 34, v had emitted an
event ParentReady(k, hash(b)), where k is the first slot of windowSlots(s).
By Definition 15, there is a block b, such that v observed a notar-fallback
certificate for b, and skip certificates for all slots i such that slot(b) < i < k .
Since v will observe skip certificates for all slots in windowSlots(s), v will
observe skip certificates for all slots i such that slot(b) < i < s +. By 15, v
will emit ParentReady(s+, hash(b).
(ii) Let s′ be the highest slot in windowSlots(s) for which some correct
node v will not observe a skip certificate. By Lemma 39, v will observe a
notar-fallback certificate for some block b in slot s′ = slot(b). By definition of
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
s′, v will observe skip certificates for all slots i such that slot(b) < i < s +. By
15, v will emit ParentReady(s+, hash(b).
Lemma 41. All correct nodes will set the timeouts for all slots.
Proof. Follows by induction from Lemma 33 and Lemma 40.
Lemma 42. Suppose it is after GST and the first correct node v set the
timeout for the first slot s of a leader window windowSlots(s) at time t.
Then, all correct nodes will emit some event ParentReady(s, hash(b)) and set
timeouts for slots in windowSlots(s) by time t + ∆.
Proof. By Corollary 34 and Definition 15, v observed a notar-fallback certifi-
cate for some block b and skip certificates for all slots i such that slot(b) <
i < s by time t. Since v is correct, it broadcast the certificates, which were
also observed by all correct nodes by time t + ∆. Therefore, all correct nodes
emitted ParentReady(s, hash(b)) by time t + ∆ and set the timeouts for all
slots in windowSlots(s).
Theorem 2 (liveness). Let vℓ be a correct leader of a leader window be-
ginning with slot s. Suppose no correct node set the timeouts for slots in
windowSlots(s) before GST, and that Rotor is successful for all slots in
windowSlots(s). Then, blocks produced by vℓ in all slots windowSlots(s)
will be finalized by all correct nodes.
Proof. The intuitive outline of the proof is as follows:
(1) We calculate the time by which correct nodes receive blocks.
(2) Suppose for contradiction some correct node v cast a skip vote. We argue
that v cast a skip vote in every slot k′ ≥ k, k′ ∈ windowSlots(s).
(3) We consider different causes for the first skip vote cast byv. We determine
that some Timeout(j) resulted in casting a skip vote by v before any
SafeToNotar or SafeToSkip is emitted in the window.
(4) We argue that Timeout(k) can only be emitted afterv has already received
a block and cast a notarization vote in slot k, a contradiction.
(1) By Lemma 41, all correct nodes will set the timeouts for s. Let t be
the time at which the first correct node sets the timeout for s. Since t ≥
GST, by Lemma 42, vℓ emitted ParentReady(s, hash(b)) for some b and added
ParentReady(hash(b)) to state[s] in line 13 of Algorithm 1 by time t+ ∆. Con-
ditions in lines 1 and 4 of Algorithm 3 imply that afterParentReady(hash(b)) ∈
state[s], vℓ proceeded to line 10 by time t + ∆. According to lines 11 and 16,
vℓ will finish transmission of a block bk in slot k ∈ windowSlots(s) by time
t+∆+(k−s+1)·∆block. Since Rotor is successful for slots inwindowSlots(s),
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
correct nodes will receive the block in slot k ∈ windowSlots(s) by time
t + 3∆ + (k − s + 1) · ∆block.
(2) Suppose for contradiction, some correct node v will not cast a nota-
rization vote for some bk, and let k be the lowest such slot. Since vℓ is correct,
the only valid block received by any party in slot k is bk, and v cannot cast a
different notarization vote in slot k. By Lemma 35, v will cast a skip vote in
slot k. Moreover, v cannot cast a notarization vote in any slot k′ > k in the
leader window, due to the latter leg of the condition in line 11 of Algorithm 2
(i.e. not firstSlot and VotedNotar(hashparent) ∈ state[k′ − 1]). Therefore, v
cast a skip vote in every slot k′ ≥ k, k′ ∈ windowSlots(s).
(3) Skip votes in slot k are cast by trySkipWindow(j) in Algorithm 2,
where j ∈ windowSlots(s). The function trySkipWindow(j) is called af-
ter handling SafeToNotar(j, . . .), SafeToSkip(j), or Timeout(j) in Algorithm 1.
Let j be the slot such that the first skip vote ofv for a slot inwindowSlots(s)
resulted from handling SafeToNotar(j, . . .), SafeToSkip(j), or Timeout(j). Con-
sider the following cases:
• SafeToNotar(j, . . .): If j < k , by definition of k, all correct nodes cast
notarization votes for bj. Therefore, SafeToNotar(j, . . .) cannot be emit-
ted by a correct node. Therefore, j ≥ k. SafeToNotar(j, . . .) requires v
to cast a skip vote in slot j first. Therefore, v cast a skip vote for slot
j before emitting SafeToNotar(j, . . .), a contradiction.
• SafeToSkip(j): Similarly to SafeToNotar, the event cannot be emitted
by a correct node for j < k , and requires that v cast some skip vote for
slot j ≥ k before it is emitted, a contradiction.
• Timeout(j): Due to the condition when handling the event in line 6 of
Algorithm 1, the event does not have any effect if v cast a notarization
vote in slot j. Moreover, v cannot cast a notarization vote in slot j if
Timeout(j) was emitted beforehand. Since v cast notarization votes in
slots of the window lower thank, then j ≥ k. Since the event Timeout(j)
is scheduled at a higher time for a higher slot in line 5 of Algorithm 2,
the time at which Timeout(k) is emitted is the earliest possible time at
which v cast the first skip vote in the window.
(4) Since t is the time at which the first correct node set the timeout for
slot s, v emitted Timeout(k) at time t′ ≥ t + ∆timeout + (k − s + 1) · ∆block ≥
t + 3∆ + (k − s + 1) · ∆block. However, as calculated above, v has received
bi for all s ≤ i ≤ k by that time. Analogously to Lemma 42, v has also
emitted ParentReady(s, hash(b)) and added ParentReady(hash(b)) to state[s],
where b is the parent of bs. The condition in line 11 is satisfied when v calls
tryNotar(Block(s, hash(bs), hash(b))), and v cast a notarization vote for bs.
Since checkPendingBlocks() is called in lines 3 and 14 of Algorithm 1
when handling Block and ParentReady events, v cast a notarization vote for
bi for all s ≤ i ≤ k by the time Timeout(k) is emitted, irrespectively of the
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
order in which bi were received. This contradicts the choice of v as a node
that did not cast a notarization vote for bk.
Since for all k ∈ windowSlots(s) all correct nodes cast notarization
votes for bk, all correct nodes will observe the fast-finalization certificate for
bk and finalize bk.
Analysis
2.11 Higher Crash Resilience
In this section we sketch the intuition behind Alpenglow’s correctness in
less adversarial network conditions, but with more crash faults.
In harsh network conditions Alpenglow can be attacked by an adversary
with over 20% of stake. However, such an attack requires careful orchestra-
tion. Unintentional mistakes, crash faults and denial-of-service attacks (which
are functionally akin to crash faults) have historically caused more problems
for blockchain systems. In the rest of this section, we will consider Assump-
tion 2 instead of Assumption 1. Additionally, Assumption 3 captures on a
high level the attacker’s lesser control over the network.
Assumption 3 (Rotor non-equivocation). If a correct node receives a full
block b via Rotor (Section 2.2), any other correct node that receives a full
block via Rotor for the same slot, receives the same block b.
Note that crashed nodes are functionally equivalent to nodes exhibiting
indefinite network delay. In Section 2.9 we have demonstrated that Alpenglow
is safe with arbitrarily large network delays, which are possible in our model.
Therefore, safety is ensured under Assumption 2.
The reasoning behind liveness (Section 2.10) is affected by Assumption 2
whenever we argue that correct nodes will observe enough votes to trigger the
conditions of Definition 16 ( SafeToNotar and SafeToSkip). However, with the
additional Assumption 3 that two correct nodes cannot reconstruct a different
block in the same slot, either SafeToNotar or SafeToSkip has to be emitted
by all correct nodes after they observe the votes of other correct nodes. If
correct nodes with at least 20% of stake voted to notarize a block, then the
condition:

skip(s) + notar(b) ≥ 60% and notar(b) ≥ 20%

will be satisfied after votes of all correct nodes are observed. Otherwise,
skip(s) +
X
b
notar(b) − max
b
notar(b) ≥ skip(s) ≥ 40%
will be satisfied.
Corollary 43. Theorem 2 holds under Assumptions 2 and 3 instead of As-
sumption 1.
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
Note that if the leader is correct or crashed, Assumption 3 is never vi-
olated, as the leader would produce at most one block per slot. Therefore,
crash-only faults amounting to less than 40% of stake are always tolerated.
To conclude, we intuitively sketch the conditions in which Assumption 3
can be violated by an adversary distributing different blocks to different par-
ties. If there are also many crash nodes in this scenario, correct nodes might
not observe enough votes to emit SafeToNotar or SafeToSkip, and the protocol
could get stuck.
Suppose a malicious leader attempts to distribute two different blocks b
and b′ such that some correct nodes reconstruct and vote for b, while other
correct nodes reconstruct and vote for b′. If a correct node receives two
shreds not belonging to the same block (having a different Merkle root for
the same slice index) before being able to reconstruct the block, the node
will not vote for the block. Therefore, network topology and sampling of
Rotor relays determines the feasibility of distributing two different blocks to
different correct nodes.
Example 44. Consider two clusters of correct nodes A and B, such that the
network latency within a cluster is negligible in relation to the network latency
between A and B. Each A and B are comprised of nodes with 31% of stake.
The adversary controls 18% of stake, and 20% of stake is crashed. The Rotor
relays in A receive shreds for a block bA from a malicious leader, while Rotor
relays in B receive shreds for a block bB. The Rotor relays controlled by the
adversary forward shreds of bA to A, and shreds of bB to B. Due to the delay
between A and B, nodes in A will reconstruct bA before observing any shred
of bB. Similarly for B and bB. Assumption 3 is violated in this scenario.
If the network topology has uniformly distributed nodes, it is harder to
arrange for large groups to receive enough shreds of a slice ofb before receiving
any shreds of a corresponding slice of b′.
Analysis
3 Beyond Consensus
This section describes a few issues that are not directly in the core of
the consensus protocol but deserve attention. We start with three issues
(sampling, rewards, execution) closely related to consensus, then we move on
to advanced failure handling, and we finish the section with bandwidth and
latency simulation measurement results.
Intiuition
39

--- PAGE 40 ---
3.1 Smart Sampling
To improve resilience of Rotor in practice, we use a novel committee
sampling scheme. It is inspired by FA1 [GKR23] and improves upon FA1-
IID. It takes the idea of reducing variance in the sampling further.
Definition 45. Given a number of bins k and relative stakes 0 < ρ1, . . . , ρn <
1. A partitioning of these stakes is a mapping
p : {1, . . . , k} × {1, . . . , n} → [0, 1]R,
such that:
• stakes are fully assigned, i.e., ∀v ∈ {1, . . . , n} :P
b∈{1,...,k} p(b, v) = ρv,
and
• bins are filled entirely, i.e., ∀b ∈ {1, . . . , k} :P
v∈{1,...,n} p(b, v) = 1/k.
A procedure that for any number of bins k and relative stakes ρ1, . . . , ρn cal-
culates a valid partitioning is called a partitioning algorithm.
Definition 46. Our committee sampling scheme, called partition sampling or
PS-P, is instantiated with a specific partitioning algorithm P. It then proceeds
as follows to generate a single set of Γ samples:
1. For each node with relative stake ρi > 1/Γ, fill ⌊ρiΓ⌋ bins with that node.
The remaining stake is ρ′
i = ρi − ⌊ρiΓ⌋
Γ < 1/Γ. For all other nodes, the
remaining stake is their original stake: ρ′
i = ρi
2. Calculate a partitioning for stakes ρ′
1, . . . , ρ′
n into the remaining k =
Γ −P
i∈[n]⌊ρiΓ⌋ bins according to P.
3. From each bin, sample one node proportional to their stake.
One simple example for a partitioning algorithm randomly orders nodes,
and make cuts exactly after every 1 /k relative stake. PS-P instantiated with
this simple partitioning algorithm is already better than the published state
of the art [GKR23]. However, this topic deserves more research.
Protocol
Next, we show that PS-P improves upon IID and FA1-IID. Let A denote
the adversary and ρA the total stake they control, possibly spread over many
nodes. Further, assume ρA < γ/Γ = 1/κ and therefore γ < ρ AΓ.
Lemma 47. For any stake distribution with ρi < 1/Γ for all i ∈ {1, . . . , n},
any partitioning algorithm P, adversary A being sampled at least γ times in
PS-P is at most as likely as likely as in IID stake-weighted sampling.
Proof. For any partitioning, in step 3 of Definition 46, the number of sam-
ples for the adversary is Poisson binomial distributed, i.e., it is the number
40

--- PAGE 41 ---
of successes in Γ independent Bernoulli trials (possibly with different prob-
abilities). The success probability of each trial is the proportion of stake in
each bin the adversary controls. Consider the case where A achieves to be
packed equally in all Γ bins. In that case, the number of samples from the
adversary follows the Binomial distribution with p = ρA. This is the same
as for IID stake-weighted sampling. Also, the Binomial case is also known to
be maximizing the variance for Poisson binomial distributions [Hoe56], thus
maximizing the probability for the adversary to get sampled at least γ < Γ
times.
Theorem 3. For any stake distribution, adversary A being sampled at least
γ times in PS-P is at most as likely as in FA1-IID.
Proof. Because of step 1 of in Definition 46, applying our scheme directly is
equivalent to using FA1 with our scheme as the fallback scheme it is instan-
tiated with. Therefore, together with Lemma 47, the statement follows.
Finally, we practically analyze how this sampling scheme compares to
regular stake-weighted IID sampling and FA1-IID on the current Solana stake
distribution.
40% 30% 20%
10−12
10−8
10−4
100
Crashed nodes (by stake)
Failure probability
Crashes (γ = 32, Γ = 64)
PS-P
F A1-IID
Stake-weighted
T urbine
64 128 256
10−12
10−8
10−4
100
Total shreds (Γ)
Failure probability
40% Crashes ( κ = 2)
PS-P
F A1-IID
Stake-weighted
T urbine
Figure 9: Probabilities that Rotor is not successful when experiencing crash
failures, when instantiated with PS-P (with fully randomized partitioning)
compared to other sampling techniques. This assumes 64 slices per block
(Rotor is only successful for the block if it is successful for every slice).
Analysis
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
3.2 Voting vs. Execution
In Section 2, we omitted the execution of the blocks and the transactions
therein. Currently, Solana uses the synchronous execution model described
below.
Eager (Synchronous) Execution. The leader executes the block before
sending it, and all nodes execute the block before voting for it. With the
slices being pipelined (the next slice is propagated while the previous slice
is executed), this may add some time to the critical path, since we need to
execute the last slice before we can send a notarization vote for the block.
Lazy (Asynchronous) Execution. We can also vote on a block before
executing it. We need to make sure that the Compute Units (CUs) reflect
actual execution costs. This way the CU bounds on transactions and the
whole block guarantee that blocks are executed timely. If CUs are unrealis-
tically optimistic, this cannot work since execution delays may grow without
bounds.
Distributed Execution. Another active area of research is distributed ex-
ecution, which is related to this discussion about execution model. In dis-
tributed execution validators use multiple machines (co-located for minimal
latency) for executing transactions. Ideally, in contrast to executions on a
single machine, this allows the system to scale to higher transaction through-
puts. It also allows nodes to respond to surges in traffic without always
over-provisioning (this is called elasticity). Examples of this line of research
are Pilotfish [Kni+25] and Stingray [SSK25].
Intiuition
3.3 Asynchrony in Practice
In our model assumptions of Section 1.5 we assumed that delayed mes-
sages are eventually delivered. While this is a standard model in distributed
computing, in reality (as well as in the original formulation of partial syn-
chrony with GST [DLS88]) messages might be lost. Note that we already
allow asynchrony (arbitrarily long message delays), so our protocol is safe
even if messages are dropped. In this section we discuss two mechanisms en-
hancing Alpenglow to address network reality in practice, to restore liveness
if the protocol makes no progress.
Intiuition
Joining. Nodes might go offline for a period of time and miss all of the
messages delivered during that time. We note that if a rebooting or newly
joining node observes a finalization of block b in slot s, it is not necessary
to observe any vote or certificate messages for earlier slots. Due to safety
(Theorem 1), any future block in a slot s′ ≥ s that might be finalized will be
a descendant of b, and if any correct node emits the event ParentReady(s′, b′),
42

--- PAGE 43 ---
b′ has to be a descendant of b.
Rebooting or joining nodes need to observe a fast-finalization certificate for
a block b in slot s, or a finalization certificate fors together with a notarization
certificate for b in the same slot s. Block b can be retrieved with Repair
Section 2.8. The parent of b can be identified and retrieved after b is stored,
and so on. A practical implementation might retrieve any missing blocks for
all slots in parallel, before verifying and repairing all ancestors of b.
Standstill. Eventual delivery of messages needs to be ensured to guarantee
liveness after GST. As noted above, if a correct node observes a finalization
in slot s, no vote or certificate messages for slots earlier than s are needed
for liveness. Lack of liveness can be detected simply by observing a period
of time without new slots being finalized. After some parametrized amount
of time, e.g., ∆ standstill ≈ 10 sec in which the highest finalized slot stays the
same, correct nodes trigger a re-transmission routine. Then, nodes broadcast
a finalization certificate for the highest slot observed (either a fast-finalization
certificate for a block b in slot s, or a finalization certificate for s together with
a notarization certificate for b in the same slot s). Moreover, for all higher
slots s′ > s, nodes broadcast observed certificates and own votes cast in these
slots.
Protocol
3.4 Dynamic Timeouts
Alpenglow is defined in the partially synchronous model, but strictly
speaking, epochs deviate from partial synchrony. For epoch changes to work,
at least one block needs to be finalized in each epoch. A finalized block in
epoch e makes sure that the previous epoch e − 1 ended with an agreed-upon
state. This is important for setting the stage of epoch e + 1, i.e., to make
sure that there is agreement on the nodes and their stake at the beginning of
epoch e + 1.
Intiuition
Our solution is to extend timeouts if the situation looks dire. More
precisely, if a node does not have a finalized block in ∆ standstill ≈ 10 sec of
consecutive leader windows, the node will start extending its timeouts by
ε ≈ 5% in every leader window.
Note that the nodes do not need coordination in extending the timeouts.
As soon as nodes see finalized blocks again, they can return to the standard
timeouts immediately as described in Section 2.6. Also when returning to
normal timeouts, no agreement or coordination is needed, and some nodes
can still have longer timeouts without jeopardizing the correctness of the
system.
Increasing timeouts by ε ≈ 5% in every leader window results in expo-
nential growth. With exponential growth, timeouts quickly become longer
than any extraordinary network delay caused by any network/power disaster.
Therefore, it can be guaranteed that we have a finalized slot in each epoch.
Protocol
43

--- PAGE 44 ---
3.5 Protocol Parameters
Throughout the document we have introduced various parameters. Ta-
ble 10 shows how we set the parameters in our preliminary simulations. Test-
ing is needed to ultimately decide these parameters.
Some parameters are set implicitly, and will be different in every epoch.
This includes in particular the parameter for the number of nodesn. Through-
out this paper we used n ≈ 1,500 for the number of nodes. The reality at the
time of writing is closer to n ≈ 1,300.
Blocks per leader window w 4
Data shreds per slice γ 32
Coding shreds per slice Γ 64
Timeout increase ε 5%
Maximum nodes nmax 2,000
Standstill trigger ∆ standstill 10 sec
Block time ∆ block 400 ms
Epoch length L 18,000 slots
Table 10: Protocol Parameters.
Protocol
3.6 Bandwidth
In this section we analyze the bandwidth usage of Alpenglow. Table 11
lists the size of Votor-related messages. As a bandwidth optimization, only
one of the finalization certificates should be broadcast (whichever is observed
first). Then, in the common case, every node broadcasts a notarization vote,
finalization vote, notarization certificate and one of the finalization certificates
for every slot. If we account for the larger of the finalization certificates (fast-
finalization), for n = 1,500, a node transmits (196 + 384 + 384 + 164) · 1,500
bytes for every 400 ms slot, which corresponds to 32 .27 Mbit/s. The total
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
outgoing bandwidth is plotted in Figure 12.
Message BLS Sig.
Slot NumberBlock HashNode Bitmap
MAC HeadersTotal
notar. vote 96 8 32 – 32 28 196
notar. cert. 96 8 32 188 32 28 384
fast-final. cert. 96 8 32 188 32 28 384
final. vote 96 8 – – 32 28 164
final. cert. 96 8 – 188 32 28 352
skip vote 96 8 – – 32 28 164
skip cert. 96 8 – 188 32 28 352
Table 11: Estimation of message sizes in bytes for a network comprised of
1,500 nodes.
0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200
101
102
103
104
Validators (from small to large)
Bandwidth [Mbps]
Up-Bandwidth Usage Histogram for 500 Mbps Goodput
Rotor
V otor
Figure 12: Bandwidth usage to achieve consistent goodput of 500 Mbps, i.e.,
where the leader role requires sending at 1 Gbps for κ = 2.
Analysis
45

--- PAGE 46 ---
3.7 Latency
We simulated Alpenglow in a realistic environment. In particular, in our
simulation, the stake distribution is the same as Solana’s stake distribution at
the time of writing (epoch 780), and the latencies between nodes correspond to
real-world latency measurements. Some possible time delays are not included
in the simulation, in particular block execution time. Moreover, a different
stake distribution would change our results.
Figure 13 shows a latency histogram for the case when the block leader is
located in Zurich, Switzerland, our location at the time of writing. The leader
is fixed in Zurich, and each bar shows the average over 100,000 simulated
executions. The Rotor relays are chosen randomly, according to stake. We
plot simulated latencies to reach different stages of the Alpenglow protocol
against the fraction of the network that arrived at that stage.
• The green bars show the network latency. With the current node distri-
bution of Solana, about 65% of Solana’s stake is within 50 ms network
latency round-trip time) of Zurich. The long tail of stake has more than
200 ms network latency from Zurich. The network latency serves as a
natural lower bound for our plot, e.g., if a node is 100 ms from Zurich,
then any protocol needs at least 100 ms to finalize a block at that node.
• The yellow bars show the delay incurred by Rotor, the first stage of our
protocol. More precisely, the yellow bars show when the nodes received
γ shreds, enough to reconstruct a slice.
• The red bars mark the point in time when a node has received nota-
rization votes from at least 60% of the stake.
• Finally, the blue bars show the actual finalization time. A node can
finalize because they construct a fast-finalization certificate (having re-
ceived 80% stake of the original notarization votes), or a finalization
certificate (having received 60% of the finalization votes), or having
received one of these certificates from a third party, whatever is first.
46

--- PAGE 47 ---
0 20 40 60 80 100
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Validators reached [% of stake]
Latency [ms]
Alpenglow Latency Histogram for Leader in Zurich
Finalization
Notarization
Rotor
Network latency
Figure 13: For a fixed leader in Zurich with random relays we have: (i) the
last node in the network finalizes in less than 270 ms, (ii) the median node
finalizes almost as fast as the fastest ones, in roughly 115 ms.
0 20 40 60 80 100
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Validators reached [% of stake]
Latency [ms]
Alpenglow Latency Histogram for Random Leaders
Finalization
Notarization
Rotor
Network latency
Figure 14: This plot is a generalized version of Figure 13, where the leader
is chosen randomly according to stake. While Zurich is not “the center of
the Solana universe,” it is more central than the average leader. Hence the
numbers in this plot are a bit higher than in Figure 13, and the median
finalization time is roughly 150 ms.
Analysis
47

--- PAGE 48 ---
Thanks. We thank the following people for their input: Ittai Abraham, Zeta
Avarikioti, Emanuele Cesena, Igor Durovic, Yuval Efron, Pranav Garimidi, Sam
Kim, Charlie Li, Carl Lin, Julian Loss, Zarko Milosevic, Gabriela Moreira,
Karthik Narayan, Joachim Neu, Alexander Pyattaev, Ling Ren, Max Resnick,
Tim Roughgarden, Ashwin Sekar, Victor Shoup, Philip Taffet, Yann Vonlan-
then, Marko Vukoli´ c, Josef Widder, Wen Xu, Anatoly Yakovenko, Haoran Yi,
Yunhao Zhang.
References
[Abr+21] Ittai Abraham, Kartik Nayak, Ling Ren, and Zhuolun Xiang. “Good-
case Latency of Byzantine Broadcast: A Complete Categorization”.
In: Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed
Computing (PODC). 2021, pages 331–341.
[Abr+17] Ittai Abraham et al. “Revisiting fast practical byzantine fault tol-
erance”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.01367 (2017).
[Aru+24] Balaji Arun, Zekun Li, Florian Suri-Payer, Sourav Das, and Alexan-
der Spiegelman. Shoal++: High Throughput DAG-BFT Can Be Fast!
https : / / decentralizedthoughts . github . io / 2024 - 06 - 12 -
shoalpp/. 2024.
[Aru+25] Balaji Arun, Zekun Li, Florian Suri-Payer, Sourav Das, and Alexan-
der Spiegelman. “Shoal++: High Throughput DAG BFT Can Be
Fast and Robust!” In: 22nd USENIX Symposium on Networked Sys-
tems Design and Implementation (NSDI) . 2025.
[Bab+25] Kushal Babel et al. “Mysticeti: Reaching the Latency Limits with
Uncertified DAGs”. In: 32nd Annual Network and Distributed Sys-
tem Security Symposium (NDSS) . The Internet Society, 2025.
[Bon+03] Dan Boneh, Craig Gentry, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. “Ag-
gregate and verifiably encrypted signatures from bilinear maps”.
In: Advances in Cryptology (Eurocrypt), Warsaw, Poland. Springer.
2003, pages 416–432.
[BKM18] Ethan Buchman, Jae Kwon, and Zarko Milosevic. The latest gossip
on BFT consensus . arXiv:1807.04938, http : / / arxiv . org / abs /
1807.04938. 2018.
[CT05] Christian Cachin and Stefano Tessaro. “Asynchronous verifiable in-
formation dispersal”. In: 24th IEEE Symposium on Reliable Dis-
tributed Systems (SRDS) . IEEE. 2005, pages 191–201.
[CL99] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov. “Practical Byzantine Fault Tol-
erance”. In: Proceedings of the Third Symposium on Operating Sys-
tems Design and Implementation (OSDI) . New Orleans, Louisiana,
USA, 1999, pages 173–186.
48

--- PAGE 49 ---
[CP23] Benjamin Y. Chan and Rafael Pass. “Simplex Consensus: A Simple
and Fast Consensus Protocol”. In: Theory of Cryptography (TCC),
Taipei, Taiwan. Taipei, Taiwan: Springer-Verlag, 2023, pages 452–
479.
[Con+24] Andrei Constantinescu, Diana Ghinea, Jakub Sliwinski, and Roger
Wattenhofer. “Brief Announcement: Unifying Partial Synchrony”.
In: 38th International Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC).
2024.
[Dan+22] George Danezis, Lefteris Kokoris-Kogias, Alberto Sonnino, and Alex-
ander Spiegelman. “Narwhal and Tusk: a DAG-based mempool and
efficient BFT consensus”. In: Proceedings of the Seventeenth Euro-
pean Conference on Computer Systems (EuroSys) . 2022, pages 34–
50.
[Dod02] Yevgeniy Dodis. “Efficient construction of (distributed) verifiable
random functions”. In: Public Key Cryptography (PKC), Miami,
FL, USA. Springer. 2002, pages 1–17.
[DGV04] Partha Dutta, Rachid Guerraoui, and Marko Vukolic. The Complex-
ity of Asynchronous Byzantine Consensus . https://infoscience.
epfl.ch/server/api/core/bitstreams/19ce5930- 31af- 4489-
9551-d5d014b8c1f1/content. 2004.
[DLS88] Cynthia Dwork, Nancy A. Lynch, and Larry J. Stockmeyer. “Con-
sensus in the Presence of Partial Synchrony”. In: J. ACM 35.2
(1988), pages 288–323.
[FMW24] Austin Federa, Andrew McConnell, and Mateo Ward. DoubleZero
Protocol. https://doublezero.xyz/whitepaper.pdf. 2024.
[Fou19] Solana Foundation. Turbine–Solana’s Block Propagation Protocol
Solves the Scalability Trilemma . https : / / solana . com / news /
turbine--- solana- s- block- propagation- protocol- solves-
the-scalability-trilemma. 2019.
[GKR23] Peter Gazi, Aggelos Kiayias, and Alexander Russell. “Fait Accom-
pli Committee Selection: Improving the Size-Security Tradeoff of
Stake-Based Committees”. In: ACM SIGSAC Conference on Com-
puter and Communications Security (CCS), Copenhagen, Denmark.
ACM, 2023, pages 845–858.
[GV07] Rachid Guerraoui and Marko Vukoli´ c. “Refined Quorum Systems”.
In: Proceedings of the 26th Annual ACM Aymposium on Principles
of Distributed Computing (PODC) . 2007, pages 119–128.
[Gue+19] Guy Golan Gueta et al. “SBFT: A scalable and decentralized trust
infrastructure”. In: 49th Annual IEEE/IFIP International Confer-
ence on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN) . 2019, pages 568–
580.
49

--- PAGE 50 ---
[Hoe56] Wassily Hoeffding. “On the distribution of the number of successes
in independent trials”. In: The Annals of Mathematical Statistics
(1956), pages 713–721.
[Kei+22] Idit Keidar, Oded Naor, Ouri Poupko, and Ehud Shapiro. “Cor-
dial miners: Fast and efficient consensus for every eventuality”. In:
arXiv:2205.09174 (2022).
[Kni+25] Quentin Kniep, Lefteris Kokoris-Kogias, Alberto Sonnino, Igor Za-
blotchi, and Nuda Zhang. “Pilotfish: Distributed Execution for Scal-
able Blockchains”. In: Financial Cryptography and Data Security
(FC), Miyakojima, Japan. Apr. 2025.
[Kot+07] Ramakrishna Kotla, Lorenzo Alvisi, Mike Dahlin, Allen Clement,
and Edmund Wong. “Zyzzyva: speculative byzantine fault toler-
ance”. In: Proceedings of 21st Symposium on Operating Systems
Principles (SOSP). 2007, pages 45–58.
[Kur02] Klaus Kursawe. “Optimistic byzantine agreement”. In: 21st IEEE
Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems (DSN) . IEEE. 2002,
pages 262–267.
[KTZ21] Petr Kuznetsov, Andrei Tonkikh, and Yan X Zhang. “Revisiting Op-
timal Resilience of Fast Byzantine Consensus”. In:Proceedings of the
ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (PODC) .
Virtual Event, Italy, 2021, pages 343–353.
[Lam03] Leslie Lamport. “Lower Bounds for Asynchronous Consensus”. In:
Future Directions in Distributed Computing: Research and Position
Papers. 2003, pages 22–23.
[LNS25] Andrew Lewis-Pye, Kartik Nayak, and Nibesh Shrestha. The Pipes
Model for Latency and Throughput Analysis . Cryptology ePrint Ar-
chive, Paper 2025/1116. 2025. url: https://eprint.iacr.org/
2025/1116.
[MA06] J-P Martin and Lorenzo Alvisi. “Fast byzantine consensus”. In:
IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (2006),
pages 202–215.
[Mer79] Ralph Charles Merkle. Secrecy, Authentication, and Public Key Sys-
tems. Stanford University, 1979.
[MRV99] Silvio Micali, Michael Rabin, and Salil Vadhan. “Verifiable random
functions”. In: 40th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Com-
puter Science (FOCS). IEEE. 1999, pages 120–130.
[Mil+16] Andrew Miller, Yu Xia, Kyle Croman, Elaine Shi, and Dawn Song.
“The Honey Badger of BFT Protocols”. In: Proceedings of the ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(CCS). 2016, pages 31–42.
[PSL80] Marshall C. Pease, Robert E. Shostak, and Leslie Lamport. “Reach-
ing Agreement in the Presence of Faults”. In: J. ACM 27.2 (1980),
pages 228–234.
50

--- PAGE 51 ---
[Pos84] Jon Postel. Standard for the Interchange of Ethernet Frames . RFC
894. Apr. 1984.
[RS60] Irving S Reed and Gustave Solomon. “Polynomial codes over certain
finite fields”. In: Journal of the society for industrial and applied
mathematics 8.2 (1960), pages 300–304.
[Sho24] Victor Shoup. “Sing a Song of Simplex”. In: 38th International Sym-
posium on Distributed Computing (DISC) . Volume 319. Leibniz In-
ternational Proceedings in Informatics. Dagstuhl, Germany, 2024,
37:1–37:22.
[SSV25] Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen. “Kudzu: Fast
and Simple High-Throughput BFT”. In: arXiv:2505.08771 (2025).
[SKN25] Nibesh Shrestha, Aniket Kate, and Kartik Nayak. “Hydrangea: Op-
timistic Two-Round Partial Synchrony with One-Third Fault Re-
silience”. In: Cryptology ePrint Archive (2025).
[SR08] Yee Jiun Song and Robbert van Renesse. “Bosco: One-step byzan-
tine asynchronous consensus”. In: International Symposium on Dis-
tributed Computing (DISC) . Springer. 2008, pages 438–450.
[Spi+22] Alexander Spiegelman, Neil Giridharan, Alberto Sonnino, and Lef-
teris Kokoris-Kogias. “Bullshark: DAG BFT protocols made practi-
cal”. In: Proceedings of the ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security (CCS) . 2022, pages 2705–2718.
[SSK25] Srivatsan Sridhar, Alberto Sonnino, and Lefteris Kokoris-Kogias.
“Stingray: Fast Concurrent Transactions Without Consensus”. In:
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.06531 (2025).
[SDV19] Chrysoula Stathakopoulou, Tudor David, and Marko Vukolic. “Mir-
BFT: High-Throughput BFT for Blockchains”. In:arXiv:1906.05552
(2019).
[Von+24] Yann Vonlanthen, Jakub Sliwinski, Massimo Albarello, and Roger
Wattenhofer. “Banyan: Fast Rotating Leader BFT”. In: 25th ACM
International Middleware Conference, Hong Kong, China. Dec. 2024.
[Yak18] Anatoly Yakovenko. Solana: A new architecture for a high perfor-
mance blockchain v0.8.13. https://solana.com/solana-whitepaper.
pdf. 2018.
[Yan+22] Lei Yang, Seo Jin Park, Mohammad Alizadeh, Sreeram Kannan, and
David Tse. “DispersedLedger: High-Throughput Byzantine Consen-
sus on Variable Bandwidth Networks”. In:19th USENIX Symposium
on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI). Renton,
WA, Apr. 2022, pages 493–512.
[Yin+19] Maofan Yin, Dahlia Malkhi, Michael K Reiter, Guy Golan Gueta,
and Ittai Abraham. “HotStuff: BFT Consensus with Linearity and
Responsiveness”. In: Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Prin-
ciples of Distributed Computing (PODC) . 2019, pages 347–356.
51

--- PAGE 52 ---
[Zha+11] Xin Zhang et al. “SCION: Scalability, Control, and Isolation on
Next-Generation Networks”. In: IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (S&P). 2011, pages 212–227.
52