--- PAGE 1 ---
Casper the Friendly Finality Gadget
Vitalik Buterin and Virgil Grifﬁth
Ethereum Foundation
Abstract
We introduce Casper, a proof of stake-based ﬁnality system which overlays an existing proof of
work blockchain. Casper is a partial consensus mechanism combining proof of stake algorithm
research and Byzantine fault tolerant consensus theory. We introduce our system, prove some
desirable features, and show defenses against long range revisions and catastrophic crashes.
The Casper overlay provides almost any proof of work chain with additional protections against
block reversions.
1. Introduction
Over the past few years there has been considerable research into “proof of stake” (PoS) based blockchain
consensus algorithms. In a PoS system, a blockchain appends and agrees on new blocks through a process where
anyone who holds coins inside of the system can participate, and the inﬂuence an agent has is proportional to the
number of coins (or “stake”) it holds. This is a vastly more efﬁcient alternative to proof of work (PoW) “mining”
and enables blockchains to operate without mining’s high hardware and electricity costs.
There are two major schools of thought in PoS design. The ﬁrst, chain-based proof of stake[1, 2], mimics proof of
work mechanics and features a chain of blocks and simulates mining by pseudorandomly assigning the right to
create new blocks to stakeholders. This includes Peercoin[3], Blackcoin[4], and Iddo Bentov’s work[5].
The other school, Byzantine fault tolerant (BFT) based proof of stake, is based on a thirty-year-old body of
research into BFT consensus algorithms such as PBFT[6]. BFT algorithms typically have proven mathematical
properties; for example, one can usually mathematically prove that as long as > 2
3 of protocol participants are
following the protocol honestly, then, regardless of network latency, the algorithm cannot ﬁnalize conﬂicting
blocks. Repurposing BFT algorithms for proof of stake was ﬁrst introduced by Tendermint[7], and has modern
inspirations such as [8]. Casper follows this BFT tradition, though with some modiﬁcations.
1.1. Our Work
Casper the Friendly Finality Gadget is an overlay atop a proposal mechanism—a mechanism which proposes
blocks1. Casper is responsible for ﬁnalizing these blocks, essentially selecting a unique chain which represents
the canonical transactions of the ledger. Casper provides safety, but liveness depends on the chosen proposal
mechanism. That is, if attackers wholly control the proposal mechanism, Casper protects against ﬁnalizing two
conﬂicting checkpoints, but the attackers could prevent Casper from ﬁnalizing any future checkpoints.
Casper introduces several new features that BFT algorithms do not necessarily support:
• Accountability. If a validator violates a rule, we can detect the violation and know which validator
violated the rule. Accountability allows us to penalize malfeasant validators, solving the “nothing at
stake” problem that plagues chain-based PoS. The penalty for violating a rule is a validator’s entire
deposit. This maximal penalty is the defense against violating the protocol. Because proof of stake
security is based on the size of the penalty, which can be set to greatly exceed the gains from the mining
reward, proof of stake provides strictly stronger security incentives than proof of work.
1This functionality serves a similar role to the common abstraction of “leader election” used in traditional BFT algorithms,
but is adapted to accomodate Casper’s construction of being a ﬁnality overlay atop an existing blockchain.
arXiv:1710.09437v4  [cs.CR]  22 Jan 2019

--- PAGE 2 ---
• Dynamic validators. We introduce a safe way for the validator set to change over time (Section 3).
• Defenses. We introduce defenses against long range revision attacks as well as attacks where more than
1
3 of validators drop ofﬂine, at the cost of a very weak tradeoff synchronicity assumption (Section 4).
• Modular overlay. Casper’s design as an overlay makes it easier to implement as an upgrade to an
existing proof of work chain.
We describe Casper in stages, starting with a simple version (Section 2) and then progressively adding validator
set changes (Section 3) and ﬁnally defenses against attacks (Section 4).
2. The Casper Protocol
Within Ethereum, the proposal mechanism will initially be the existing proof of work chain, making the ﬁrst
version of Casper a hybrid PoW/PoS system. In future versions the PoW proposal mechanism will be replaced
with something more efﬁcient. For example, we can imagine converting the block proposal into a some kind of
PoS round-robin block signing scheme.
In this simple version of Casper, we assume there is a ﬁxed set of validators and a proposal mechanism (e.g.,
the familiar proof of work proposal mechanism) which produces child blocks of existing blocks, forming an
ever-growing block tree. From [9] the root of the tree is typically called the “genesis block”.
Under normal circumstances, we expect that the proposal mechanism will typically propose blocks one after the
other in a linked list (i.e., each “parent” block having exactly one “child” block). But in the case of network
latency or deliberate attacks, the proposal mechanism will inevitably occassionally produce multiple children of
the same parent. Casper’s job is to choose a single child from each parent, thus choosing one canonical chain from
the block tree.
Rather than deal with the full block tree, for efﬁciency purposes2 Casper only considers the subtree of checkpoints
forming the checkpoint tree (Figure 1a). The genesis block is a checkpoint, and every block whose height in the
block tree (or block number) is an exact multiple of 100 is also a checkpoint. The “checkpoint height” of a block
with block height 100∗k is simplyk; equivalently, the height h(c) of a checkpointc is the number of elements in
the checkpoint chain stretching fromc (non-inclusive) to the root along the parent links (Figure 1b).3
Each validator has a deposit; when a validator joins, its deposit is the number of deposited coins. After joining,
each validator’s deposit rises and falls with rewards and penalties. Proof of stake’s security derives from the size
of the deposits, not the number of validators, so for the rest of this paper, when we say “2
3 of validators”, we are
referring to the deposit-weighted fraction; that is, a set of validators whose sum deposit size equals to 2
3 of the
total deposit size of the entire set of validators.
Validators can broadcast a vote message containing four pieces of information (Table 1): two checkpointss andt
together with their heights h(s) and h(t). We require thats be an ancestor oft in the checkpoint tree, otherwise
the vote is considered invalid. If the public key of the validator ν is not in the validator set, the vote is considered
invalid. Together with the signature of the validator, we will write these votes in the form⟨ν,s,t, h(s), h(t)⟩.
Notation Description
s the hash of any justiﬁed checkpoint (the “source”)
t any checkpoint hash that is a descendent ofs (the “target”)
h(s) the height of checkpoints in the checkpoint tree
h(t) the height of checkpointt in the checkpoint tree
S signature of⟨s,t, h(s), h(t)⟩ from the validator ν’s private key
Table 1: The schematic of a single VOTE message denoted⟨ν,s,t, h(s), h(t)⟩.
We deﬁne the following terms:
2A long distance between checkpoints reduces the overhead of the algorithm, but also increases the time it takes to come to
consensus. We choose a spacing of 99 blocks between checkpoints as a middle ground.
3Speciﬁcally, the height of a checkpoint is not the same as the number of ancestors in the checkpoint tree all the way back
to root along the supermajority links (deﬁned in the next section).
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
b1
b2
b3
r
(a) The checkpoint tree. The dashed line represents 99 blocks between the checkpoints, which are represented by
rounded rectangles. The root of the tree is denoted “r”.
b1
b2
b3
rh( r)=0
h( b1)=1
h( b2)=3
h( b3)=6
(b) The height function
b1
b2
b3
r (c) The justiﬁed chain r → b1 → b2 → b3
Figure 1: Illustrating a checkpoint tree, the height function, and a justiﬁed chain within the checkpoint tree.
• A supermajority link is an ordered pair of checkpoints (a,b ), also writtena→b, such that at least 2
3 of
validators (by deposit) have published votes with sourcea and targetb. Supermajority links can skip
checkpoints, i.e., it’s perfectly okay for h(b)> h(a) + 1. Figure 1c shows three distinct supermajority
links in red:r→b1,b1→b2, andb2→b3.
• Two checkpointsa andb are called conﬂicting if and only if they are nodes in distinct branches, i.e.,
neither is an ancestor or descendant of the other.
• A checkpointc is called justiﬁed if (1) it is the root, or (2) there exists a supermajority linkc′→c where
checkpointc′ is justiﬁed. Figure 1c shows a chain of four justiﬁed blocks.
• A checkpointc is called ﬁnalized if (1) it is the root or (2) it is justiﬁed and there is a supermajority link
c→c′ wherec′ is a direct child ofc. Equivalently, checkpointc is ﬁnalized if and only if: checkpoint
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
AN INDIVIDUAL VALIDATOR ν MUST NOT PUBLISH TWO DISTINCT VOTES ,
⟨ν,s 1,t 1, h(s1), h(t1)⟩ AND ⟨ν,s 2,t 2, h(s2), h(t2)⟩ ,
SUCH THAT EITHER :
I. h(t1) = h(t2).
Equivalently, a validator must not publish two distinct votes for the same target height.OR
II. h(s1)< h(s2)< h(t2)< h(t1).
Equivalently, a validator must not vote within the span of its other votes.
Figure 2: The two Casper Commandments. Any validator who violates either of these commandments gets its
deposit slashed.
c is justiﬁed, there exists a supermajority link c→ c′, checkpoints c andc′ are not conﬂicting, and
h(c′) = h(c) + 1.
The most notable property of Casper is that it is impossible for any two conﬂicting checkpoints to be ﬁnalized
unless≥ 1
3 of the validators violate one of the two4 Casper Commandments/slashing conditions (Figure 2).
If a validator violates either slashing condition, the evidence of the violation can be included into the blockchain
as a transaction, at which point the validator’s entire deposit is taken away with a small “ﬁnder’s fee” given to
the submitter of the evidence transaction. In current Ethereum, stopping the enforcement of a slashing condition
requires a successful 51% attack on Ethereum’s proof-of-work block proposer.
2.1. Proving Safety and Plausible Liveness
We prove Casper’s two fundamental properties:accountable safety and plausible liveness. Accountable safety
means that two conﬂicting checkpoints cannot both be ﬁnalized unless ≥ 1
3 of validators violate a slashing
condition (meaning at least one third of the total deposit is lost). Plausible liveness means that, regardless of
any previous events (e.g., slashing events, delayed blocks, censorship attacks, etc.), if≥ 2
3 of validators follow
the protocol, then it’s always possible to ﬁnalize a new checkpoint without any validator violating a slashing
condition.
Under the assumption that< 1
3 of the validators by weight violate a slashing condition, we have the following
properties:
(i) If s1→t1 ands2→t2 are distinct supermajority links, then h(t1)̸= h(t2).
(ii) If s1 → t1 and s2 → t2 are distinct supermajority links, then the inequality
h(s1) < h(s2) < h(t2) < h(t1) cannot hold.
From these two properties, we can immediately see that, for any heightn:
(iii) there exists at most one supermajority link s→t with h(t) = n.
(iv) there exists at most one justiﬁed checkpoint with height n.
With these four properties in hand, we move to the main theorems.
Theorem 1 (Accountable Safety). Two conﬂicting checkpointsam andbn cannot both be ﬁnalized.
Proof. Letam (with justiﬁed direct childam+1, meaning h(am) + 1 = h(am+1)) andbn (with justiﬁed direct
childbn+1, meaning h(bn) + 1 = h(bn+1)) be distinct ﬁnalized checkpoints as in Figure 3. Now suppose am
andbn conﬂict, and without loss of generality h(am) < h(bn) (if h(am) = h( bn), then it is clear that 1
3 of
validators violated condition I). Let r→ b1→ b2→···→ bn be a chain of checkpoints, such that there
4Earlier versions of Casper had two types of messages and four slashing conditions[10], but we have reduced this to one
message type and two slashing conditions. We removed the conditions: (i) Committed hashes must already be justiﬁed, and (ii)
prepare messages must point to an already justiﬁed ancestor. This is a design choice. We made this choice so that slashing
violations are independent of the state of the chain.
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
exists a supermajority link r→ b1, ... , bi → bi+1,...,b n → bn+1. We know that no h(bi) equals either
h(am) or h(am+1), because that violates property (iv). Letj be the lowest integer such that h(bj)> h(am+1);
then h(bj−1) < h(am+1) (or h(bj−1) = h( am), which violates condition I). This implies the existence of a
supermajority link from a checkpoint with an epoch number less than h(am) to a checkpoint with an epoch
number greater than h(am+1), which is incompatible with the supermajority link fromam toam+1.
Theorem 2 (Plausible Liveness). Supermajority links can always be added to produce new ﬁnalized checkpoints,
provided there exist children extending the ﬁnalized chain.5
Proof. Leta be the justiﬁed checkpoint with the greatest height, andb be the target checkpoint with the greatest
height for which any validator has made a vote. Any checkpoint a′ which is a descendant of a with height
h(a′) = h(b) + 1 can be justiﬁed without violating either commandments I or II, and thena′ can be ﬁnalized by
adding a supermajority link froma′ to a direct child ofa′, also without violating either I or II.
a1=b1
a2
b3
b2
violates II
a3
b4
r
Figure 3: Figure for Theorem 1 (Accountable Safety).
2.2. Casper’s Fork Choice Rule
Casper is more complicated than standard PoW designs. As such, the fork-choice must be adjusted. Our modiﬁed
fork-choice rule should be followed by all users, validators, and even the underlying block proposal mechanism.
If the users, validators, or block-proposers instead follow the standard PoW fork-choice rule of “always build
atop the longest chain”, there are pathological scenarios where Casper gets “stuck” and any blocks built atop
the longest chain cannot be ﬁnalized (or even justiﬁed) without some validators altruistically sacriﬁcing their
deposit. To avoid this, we introduce a novel, correct by construction, fork choice rule: FOLLOW THE CHAIN
CONTAINING THE JUSTIFIED CHECKPOINT OF THE GREATEST HEIGHT . This fork choice rule is correct by
construction because it follows from the plausible liveness proof (Theorem 2), which precisely states that it’s
always possible to ﬁnalize a new checkpoint on top of the justiﬁed checkpoint with the greatest height. This fork
choice rule will be tweaked in Sections 3 and 4.
5The ﬁnalized chain always exists because the root is ﬁnalized by deﬁnition.
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
3. Enabling Dynamic Validator Sets
The set of validators needs to be able to change. New validators must be able to join, and existing validators must
be able to leave. To accomplish this, we deﬁne the dynasty of a block. The dynasty of blockb is the number of
ﬁnalized checkpoints in the chain from root to the parent of blockb. When a would-be validator’s deposit message
is included in a block with dynastyd, then the validator ν will join the validator set at ﬁrst block with dynasty
d + 2. We calld + 2 this validator’s start dynasty, DS(ν).
To leave the validator set, a validator must send a “withdraw” message. If validator ν’s withdraw message is
included in a block with dynastyd, it similarly leaves the validator set at the ﬁrst block with dynastyd + 2; we call
d + 2 the validator’s end dynasty, DE(ν). If a withdraw message has not yet been included, then DE(ν) =∞.
Once validator ν leaves the validator set, the validator’s public key is forever forbidden from rejoining the validator
set. This removes the need to handle multiple start/end dynasties for a single identiﬁer.
At the start of the end dynasty, the validator’s deposit is locked for a long period of time, called thewithdrawal
delay (approximately “four months worth of blocks”), before the deposit is withdrawn. If, during the withdrawal
delay, the validator violates any commandment, the deposit is slashed.
We deﬁne two functions that generate two subsets of validators for any given dynastyd, the forward validator set
and the rear validator set. They are deﬁned as,
Vf (d)≡{ ν : DS(ν)≤d< DE(ν)}
Vr(d)≡{ ν : DS(ν)<d ≤ DE(ν)} .
Note this means that the forward validator set of dynasty d is the rear validator set of dynasty d + 1, i.e.,
Vf (d) =Vr(d + 1). To support these dynamic validator sets, we redeﬁne a supermajority link and a ﬁnalized
checkpoint as follows:
• An ordered pair of checkpoints (s,t ), wheret is in dynastyd, has a supermajority link if both at least 2
3
of the forward validator set of dynastyd have published votess→t and at least 2
3 of the rear validator
set of dynastyd have published votess→t.
• Previously, a checkpointc was called ﬁnalized ifc is justiﬁed and there is a supermajority link from
c→c′ wherec′ is a child ofc. We now add the condition thatc is ﬁnalized if only if the votes for the
supermajority linkc→c′, as well as the supermajority link justifyingc, are included inc′’s block chain
and before the child ofc′—i.e., before block number h(c′)∗ 100 + 1.
The forward and rear validator sets will usually greatly overlap; but if the two validator sets substantially differ,
this “stitching” mechanism prevents safety failure in the case when two grandchildren of a ﬁnalized checkpoint
have different dynasties because the evidence was included in one chain but not the other. For an example of this,
see Figure 4.
4. Stopping Attacks
There are two well-known attacks against proof-of-stake systems: long range revisions and catastrophic crashes.
We discuss each in turn.
4.1. Long Range Revisions
The withdrawal delay after a validator’s end dynasty introduces a synchronicity assumption between validators
and clients. Once a coalition of validators has withdrawn their deposits, if that coalition had more than 2
3 of
deposits long ago in the past, they can use their historical supermajority to ﬁnalize conﬂicting checkpoints without
fear of getting slashed (because they have already withdrawn their money). This is called the long-range revision
attack, see in Figure 5.
In simple terms, long-range attacks are prevented by a fork choice rule to never revert a ﬁnalized block, as well as
an expectation that each client will “log on” and gain a complete up-to-date view of the chain at some regular
frequency (e.g., once per 1–2 months). A “long range revision” fork that ﬁnalizes blocks older than that will
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
2b. Votes ﬁnalizing block s 
are included in these 
intermediate blocks, so 
dynasty increments.
2a Votes ﬁnalizing 
block s are not 
included in these 
intermediate blocks, 
so the dynasty 
doesn’t increment
1. At this checkpoint:
* Purple is the validator set
* But in the next dynasty,
   purple exits and green joins.
c c
′
s
Figure 4: Attack from dynamic validator sets. Without the validator set stitching mechanism, it’s possible for
two conﬂicting checkpointsc andc′ to both be ﬁnalized without any validator getting slashed. In this casec andc′
are the same height thus violating commandment I, but because the validator sets ﬁnalizingc andc′ are disjoint,
no one gets slashed.
simply be ignored, because all clients will have already seen a ﬁnalized block at that height and will refuse to
revert it.
We make an informal proof of the mechanism as follows. Suppose that:
• There is a maximum communication delayδ between two clients, so if one client hears some message
at timet, all other clients are guaranteed to have heard it by time t +δ. This means that we can talk
about the “time window” [tmin,t max] during which a block was received by the network, with width
tmax−tmin at mostδ.
• We assume that all clients have local clocks that are perfectly synchronized (any discrepancy can be
treated as being part of the communication delayδ).
• Blocks are required to have timestamps. If a client has local timeTL, then it will reject blocks whose
timestampTB satisﬁesTB >T L (i.e., in the future), and they will refuse to accept as ﬁnalized (but may
still accept as part of the chain) blocks whereTB <T L−δ (i.e., too far in the past)
• If a validator sees a slashing violation at time t (that’s the time they hear the later of the two votes
required for a slashing violation), then they reject blocks with timestamps>t + 2δ that are part of chains
that have not yet included this slashing evidence.
Suppose that a large set of slashing violations results in two conﬂicting ﬁnalized checkpoints,c1 andc2. If the two
time windows do not intersect, then all validators agree which checkpoint came ﬁrst and everyone follows the rule
to not revert ﬁnalized checkpoints then there is no issue.
If the two time windows do intersect, then we can handle the case as follows. Letc1’s time window be [0,δ ] and
c2’s time window be [δ−ϵ, 2δ−ϵ]. Then the timestamps of both are at least 0. By time 2δ it is guaranteed that
all clients have seen the slashing violation, so they reject blocks with timestamp> 4δ whose chains have not yet
included the evidence transaction. Hence, as long asω >4δ, it’s guaranteed that malfeasant validators will lose
their deposits in all chains that any client accepts, whereω is the “withdraw delay” (Figure 5), the delay between
the end-epoch and when validators actually receive their deposits back.
Due to network delays, it’s possible that clients will disagree whether a given piece of slashing evidence was
submitted into a given chain “on time” or as having accepted it too late. However, this is only a liveness failure,
not a safety failure, and this possibility does not weaken our security claims because it is already known that a
corrupted proposal mechanism (which would be required to prevent evidence inclusion) can prevent ﬁnality.
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
}
After withdrawal, attack 
fabricates a conﬂicting chain 
withdraw delay
/u1D714
Attacker submits 
withdraw request
Attacker 
withdraws here
c′c
Figure 5: The long range attack. As long as a client gains complete knowledge of the justiﬁed chain at a regular
interval, it will not be susceptible to a long range attack.
We can also sidestep the issue of evidence inclusion timeouts by informally arguing that attacks will be short-lived,
because the validators will perceive a long-running chain without including slashing evidence as an attack and
switch to another branch supported by an honest minority of validators that are not part of the attack (see Section
4.2) thus stopping the attack and slashing the attacker.
4.2. Castastrophic Crashes
Suppose that> 1
3 of validators crash-fail at the same time—i.e., they are no longer connected to the network due
to a network partition, computer failure, or the validators themselves are malicious. Intuitively, from this point on,
no supermajority links can be created, and thus no future checkpoints can be ﬁnalized.
We can recover from this by instituting an “inactivity leak” which slowly drains the deposit of any validator that
does not vote for checkpoints, until eventually its deposit sizes decrease low enough that the validators whoare
voting are a supermajority. The simplest formula is something like “in every epoch a validator with deposit sizeD
fails to vote, it losesD∗p (for 0<p< 1)”, though to resolve catastrophic crashes more quickly a formula which
increases the leak rate in the event of a long streak of non-ﬁnalized blocks may be optimal.
This drained ether can be burned or returned to the validator afterω days. Whether leaked assets should be burned
or returned as well as the exact formula for the inactivity leak is outside the scope of this paper as these are
questions of economic incentives, not Byzantine-fault-tolerance.
The inactivity leak introduces the possibility of two conﬂicting checkpoints being ﬁnalized without any validator
getting slashed (as in Figure 6), with validators only losing money on only one of the two checkpoints. Assume the
validators are split into two subsets, with subsetVA voting on chainA and subsetVB voting on chainB. On chain
A,VB’s deposits will leak, and vice versa, leading to each subset having a supermajority on its respective chain,
allowing two conﬂicting checkpoints to be ﬁnalized without any validators being explicitly slashed (but each
subset will lose a large portion of their deposit on one of the two chains due to leaks). If this situation happens,
then each validator should simply favor whatever ﬁnalized checkpoint it saw ﬁrst.
The exact algorithm for recovering from these various attacks remains an open problem. For now, we assume
validators can detect obviously malfeasant behavior (e.g., not including evidence) and manually create a “minority
soft fork”. This minority fork can be viewed as a blockchain in its own right that competes with the majority chain
in the market, and if the majority chain truly is operated by colluding malicious attackers then we can assume that
the market will favor the minority fork.
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
}
Validator A goes 
oﬄine and slowly 
leaks. Validator B 
strikes once it is a 
supermajority.
Justiﬁed and 
Finalized by A
Justiﬁed by A
Justiﬁed and 
Finalized by B
Justiﬁed by B 
Figure 6: Inactivity leak. The checkpoint on the left can be ﬁnalized immediately. The checkpoint on the right
can be ﬁnalized after some time, once ofﬂine validator deposits sufﬁciently deplete.
5. Conclusions
We presented Casper, a novel proof of stake system derived from the Byzantine fault tolerance literature. Casper
includes: two slashing conditions, a correct-by-construction fork choice rule inspired by [ 11], and dynamic
validator sets. Finally we introduced extensions to Casper (not reverting ﬁnalized checkpoints and the inactivity
leak) to defend against two common attacks.
Casper remains imperfect. For example, a wholly compromised block proposal mechanism will prevent Casper
from ﬁnalizing new blocks. Casper is a PoS-based strict security improvement to almost any PoW chain. The
problems that Casper does not wholly solve, particularly related to 51% attacks, can still be corrected using
user-activated soft forks. Future developments will undoubtedly improve Casper’s security and reduce the need
for user-activated soft forks.
Future Work. The current Casper system builds upon a proof of work block proposal mechanism. We wish
to convert the block proposal mechanism to proof of stake. We wish to prove accountable safety and plausible
liveness even when the weights of the validator set change with rewards and penalties. Another problem for future
work is a formal speciﬁcation of a fork-choice rule taking into account the common attacks on proof of stake.
Future workpapers will explain and analyze the ﬁnancial incentives within Casper and their consequences. A
particular economic problem related to such automated strategies to block attackers is proving upper bounds on
the ratio between the degree of disagreement between different clients and the cost incurred by the attacker.
Acknowledgements. We thank Jon Choi, Karl Floersch, Ozymandias Haynes, and Vlad Zamﬁr for frequent
discussions.
References
[1] Pass, R. & Shi, E. Fruitchains: A fair blockchain. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on Principles
of Distributed Computing, PODC 2017, 315–324 (ACM, New York, NY , USA, 2017). URLhttp://doi.
acm.org/10.1145/3087801.3087809.
[2] Introducing dﬁnity crypto techniques (2017). URL https://dfinity.org/pdf-viewer/pdfs/viewer.
html?file=../library/intro-dfinity-crypto.pdf.
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
[3] King, S. & Nadal, S. Ppcoin: Peer-to-peer crypto-currency with proof-of-stake 19 (2012). URL https://
decred.org/research/king2012.pdf. https://web.archive.org/save/https://decred.org/
research/king2012.pdf.
[4] Vasin, P. Blackcoin’s proof-of-stake protocol v2 (2014). URL http://blackcoin.co/
blackcoin-pos-protocol-v2-whitepaper.pdf .
[5] Bentov, I., Gabizon, A. & Mizrahi, A. Cryptocurrencies without proof of work. In Sion, R. (ed.)International
Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, 142–157 (Springer, 2016). URL http://www.
cs.technion.ac.il/~idddo/CoA.pdf.
[6] Castro, M., Liskov, B. & et. al. Practical byzantine fault tolerance. In Leach, P. J. & Seltzer, M. (eds.)
Proceedings of the Third Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation, vol. 99, 173–186
(1999). URL http://pmg.csail.mit.edu/papers/osdi99.pdf.
[7] Kwon, J. Tendermint: Consensus without mining (2014). URL https://tendermint.com/static/
docs/tendermint.pdf.
[8] Chen, J. & Micali, S. ALGORAND: the efﬁcient and democratic ledger. CoRR abs/1607.01341 (2016).
URL http://arxiv.org/abs/1607.01341.
[9] Nakamoto, S. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system (2008). URL https://bitcoin.org/
bitcoin.pdf.
[10] Buterin, V . Minimal slashing conditions (2017). URL https://medium.com/@VitalikButerin/
minimal-slashing-conditions-20f0b500fc6c .
[11] Sompolinsky, Y . & Zohar, A. Accelerating bitcoin’s transaction processing. fast money grows on trees, not
chains. 2013 (2013). URL http://eprint.iacr.org/2013/881.
10