
--- PAGE 1 ---
Hydrangea: Optimistic Two-Round Partial Synchrony with Improved Fault
Resilience
Nibesh Shrestha
Supra Research
n.shrestha@supra.com
Aniket Kate
Supra Research / Purdue University
aniket@purdue.edu
Kartik Nayak
Duke University
kartik@cs.duke.edu
Abstract
Consensus protocols in the partially synchronous setting face
a fundamental trade-off: achieving optimal Byzantine fault tol-
erance requires a good-case latency1 of at least three rounds,
while committing in fewer than three rounds generally entails
reduced resilience. Even optimistic protocols such as SBFT
(DSN’19), FaB (TDSC’06), and Kudzu (DISC’25) achieve an
optimistic good-case latency of two rounds under favorable
conditions, but only at the cost of reduced fault tolerance.
In this work, we introduce Hydrangea, a partially syn-
chronous state machine replication protocol that combines
low latency with improved fault resilience. Let f denote
the maximum number of tolerated Byzantine faults, c the
maximum number of tolerated crash faults, and k ≥ 0 a tun-
able parameter. For a system of n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1 parties,
Hydrangea achieves an optimistic good-case latency of two
rounds when the total number of faulty parties (Byzantine
or crash) is at most p = ⌊ c+k
2 ⌋. In more adversarial settings,
with up to f Byzantine faults and c crash faults, it guaran-
tees a good-case latency of three rounds. We further prove a
matching lower bound: no protocol can achieve a two-round
optimistic commit under this fault model if p > ⌊ c+k+2
2 ⌋.
Our experimental evaluation on geo-distributed deploy-
ments demonstrates that Hydrangea consistently achieves
substantially lower latency than state-of-the-art protocols in
both Byzantine-only and Byzantine–crash fault models, while
also delivering modest improvements in throughput.
1 Introduction
Byzantine fault-tolerant state machine replication (BFT SMR)
protocols [20, 24, 25], also referred to as consensus protocol,
form the foundational backbone of blockchain systems. The
primary objective of a BFT SMR protocol is to ensure agree-
ment on a sequence of values (i.e., a log) among a group
1Informally, good-case latency refers to the number of rounds required to
reach a decision when the broadcaster or leader is honest and the network is
synchronous [12].
of distributed parties, even in the presence of faulty or mali-
cious participants. To achieve this, the protocol must satisfy
two essential properties: safety and liveness. Safety ensures
consistency across honest parties, stipulating that no two non-
faulty parties commit different values at the same position
in the log. Liveness, on the other hand, guarantees progress
in the system, requiring that non-faulty parties continue to
append valid values to the log over time.
Most blockchain protocols today operate under the partially
synchronous network model [12], in which the network is
assumed to become synchronous after some unknown Global
Stabilization Time (GST). In this model, consensus protocols
typically rely on a “leader” (that may change over time) to
drive progress. These protocols ensure safety unconditionally
regardless of network conditions, but guarantee liveness only
once the network remains synchronous for a sufficiently long
period after GST.
A key performance metric in SMR protocols is the good-
case latency1, i.e., the number of rounds needed to commit
a transaction under favorable conditions. When defined as
the time from when the leader proposes a block to when it
is committed by all honest parties, state-of-the-art protocols
such as PBFT [7], Tendermint [6], Simplex [8,26], and Moon-
shot [11] achieve a good-case latency of three rounds. These
protocols tolerate up to f < n/3 Byzantine faults, and this
combination of latency and resilience is known to be optimal
under the partially synchronous model [3, 12].
Can we improve latency by reducing the number of Byzan-
tine faults we tolerate? This question has been explored in a
line of work including FaB [21], SBFT [15], Kudzu [27], and
Alpenglow [16]. Among these, the state-of-the-art, Kudzu,
considers a system of n = 3 f + 2p + 1 parties, where n is the
total number of parties, f is the maximum number of tolerated
Byzantine faults, and p is a tunable parameter. Kudzu always
guarantees a good-case latency of three rounds (i.e., slow
commit). However, when up to p ≤ f parties are faulty, the
protocol achieves fast commit in just two rounds—thereby ex-
hibiting an optimistic good-case latency2. For example, when
2Informally, optimistic good-case latency refers to the good-case latency
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
f = p < n/5 (i.e., less than 20% of parties are faulty), the
protocol can achieve a fast commit as long as at least n − p
(i.e., more than 80%) parties behave correctly. However, this
gain in latency comes at the cost of fault tolerance—in this
setting, the protocol tolerates fewer than n/5 faults overall.
Moreover, any protocol tolerating f < n/3 Byzantine faults
can be straightforwardly generalized to operate in the n =
3 f +2c+1 setting, where f and c bound the number of Byzan-
tine and crash faults, respectively. This transformation in-
creases resilience by tolerating a total of f + c ≥ n/3 faults,
albeit under a weaker fault model. However, while it improves
fault-type coverage, it does not enable optimistic two-round
commits.
Can we support optimistic two-round latency while
still achieving high resilience towards Byzantine
and crash faults?
This is the key question we explore in this paper, and we
answer it affirmatively. We present Hydrangea, a partially
synchronous protocol with n = 3 f +2c +k +1 parties, where
k ≥ 0 is a tunable parameter. The protocol achieves an opti-
mistic good-case latency of two rounds when up to p = ⌊ c+k
2 ⌋
parties are faulty (either Byzantine or crash) i.e., when at
least n − p parties behave correctly. Otherwise, Hydrangea
guarantees a good-case latency of three rounds while simulta-
neously tolerating up to f Byzantine faults and c crash faults.
In particular, we obtain the following result:
Theorem 1. There exists an authenticated, partially syn-
chronous Byzantine broadcast protocol undern = 3 f + 2c +
k + 1, for
(
0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 4 if c is even,
0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 3 if c is odd,
that simultaneously satisfies the following properties:
(i) an optimistic good-case latency of 2 rounds while tolerat-
ing p = ⌊ c+k
2 ⌋ faults,
(ii) a good-case latency of 3 rounds while tolerating f Byzan-
tine faults and c crash faults.
As an example, when f = 10% and c = 34%, our protocol
obtains a fast commit when the number of correct parties is
83%, but at the same time, it tolerates up to 10% Byzantine
faults and up to 34% crash faults. Prior works that improve
latency cannot obtain such a combination of 44% faults.
We note that f and c are independent parameters for Hy-
drangea, and considering any combination of these can be
useful in practice. In comparison, for prior work such as
Kudzu [27], given that the protocol tolerates only f Byzan-
tine faults, it is only meaningful to consider p ≤ f . Moreover,
achievable under favorable conditions, such as when more parties behave
honestly.
since our fault model considers a combination of Byzantine
and crash faults, which is weaker than considering Byzantine
faults only, this allows us to use quorums that are smaller than
2n
3 when c + k ≥ 1.
A lower bound on resilience for optimistic good-case la-
tency. We also establish a lower bound on the resilience for
achieving optimistic good-case latency. Specifically, we show
that if more than p = ⌊ c+k+2
2 ⌋ are faulty, then no protocol
can achieve an optimistic good-case latency of two rounds
under n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1 while simultaneously tolerating f
Byzantine faults and c crash faults. In particular, we establish
the following result:
Theorem 2. There exists no authenticated, partially syn-
chronous Byzantine broadcast protocol that simultaneously
tolerates f Byzantine faults and c crash faults under the con-
straint n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1, for
(
0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 4 if c is even,
0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 3 if c is odd,
and achieves an optimistic good-case latency of two rounds
while tolerating more than p = ⌊ c+k+2
2 ⌋ faulty parties (Byzan-
tine or crash).
When c = 0, our lower bound specializes to the optimistic
two-round impossibility result of Kuznetsov et al. [19], which
states that in the n = 3 f + 2p + 1 setting, achieving an opti-
mistic good-case latency of two rounds is impossible if more
than p + 1 faults are tolerated. In our formulation, this bound
corresponds to ⌊ k+2
2 ⌋ faults. Hence, our result strictly general-
izes theirs to the combined Byzantine-and-crash fault setting.
Towards a matching upper bound. Our upper and lower
bound results do not match, leaving a small gap. However,
this gap can be bridged by adapting techniques from the
work of Abraham et al. [3], who present a partially syn-
chronous Byzantine broadcast protocol that achieves two-
round good-case latency while tolerating f Byzantine faults
under n ≥ 5 f −1. At a high level, their protocol differentiates
between types of messages—particularly those sent by the
leader. When an equivocation is detected, the leader is defini-
tively identified as faulty. The protocol then waits for one
additional message from an honest party, thereby enabling
progress with a smaller honest majority and achieving the
stated resilience bound.
A similar approach can be incorporated into our setting
to design an upper bound protocol that tolerates up to p =
⌊ c+k+2
2 ⌋ faults during optimistic commit, thereby closing the
gap between the lower and upper bounds in our model. How-
ever, Hydrangea opts for slightly reduced optimistic resilience
of p = ⌊ c+k
2 ⌋ in exchange for a significantly simpler protocol
design.
Implementation and evaluation. We implement and eval-
uate Hydrangea against Jolteon ∗ [31] (a latency optimized
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
variant of Jolteon [13]) and ByzCrash, a protocol operating
in the n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1 setting but lacking an optimistic
two-round commit rule. In the failure-free setting, Hydrangea
consistently outperforms both baselines: in a 100-node de-
ployment, it achieves approximately 20% lower latency than
Jolteon∗ and roughly 10% lower latency than ByzCrash, while
also attaining slightly higher throughput.
In a scenario with faults where optimistic commits do not
happen, Hydrangea and ByzCrash exhibit identical perfor-
mance, as both revert to the same three-round commit path.
Even in this case, Hydrangea maintains a latency advantage
of around 20% over Jolteon∗.
Practical significance.Most production-grade consensus pro-
tocols [4,11,31] are designed to tolerate the optimal bound on
Byzantine faults. However, in practice, Byzantine failures are
relatively rare, with the majority of observed failures being
weaker, such as crash faults. In these scenarios, protocols that
handle only Byzantine faults are often less efficient, as they
require larger quorums and more messages to ensure progress,
thereby increasing latency. By contrast, protocols that toler-
ate both Byzantine and crash faults better reflect real-world
failure patterns, achieve higher overall fault tolerance, and of-
ten progress with fewer messages. Recognizing this, top-tier
blockchains such as Solana have shifted to the Byzantine-
and-crash model, proposing Alpenglow [16] 3. Building on
this model, Hydrangea not only enhances resilience but also
achieves an optimistic two-round commit, substantially reduc-
ing latency in favorable conditions.
Organization. In Section 2, we provide a high-level technical
overview of our approach. Section 3 introduces the system
model and necessary preliminaries. We establish our lower
bound in Section 4, followed by the presentation of our upper-
bound protocol in Section 5. The performance evaluation of
our protocol is detailed in Section 6. Finally, related work is
discussed in Section 7.
2 Technical Overview
For clarity, we first describe consensus on a single value,
though the full protocol generalizes to sequence of values.
Protocols in partial synchrony. Classical partially syn-
chronous consensus protocols tolerate f < n/3 Byzantine
faults and proceed in views with each view v coordinated by
a designated leader Lv. The leader proposes a value B, which
parties attempt to certify and then commit through two voting
phases. In the first phase, parties vote for at most one proposal;
collecting votes from 2n/3 parties yields a certificate Cv(B),
upon which parties lock onto B. In the second phase, if 2n/3
parties vote again for B, the value is committed.
3We note that while Alpenglow [16] takes a step toward handling both
Byzantine and crash faults, its guarantees are limited: the protocol supports a
two round commit with up to 20% Byzantine faults, or alternatively tolerates
up to 40% crash faults but no Byzantine faults.
The first phase guarantees uniqueness within a view: two
conflicting certificates cannot exist, since any two quorums
intersect in at least one honest party, which votes for only
one value. The second phase ensures safety across views: if
B is committed, then at least n/3 honest parties are locked
on B. In the next view, any quorum of 2n/3 parties intersects
this locked set, forcing an honest leader to repropose B and
preventing Byzantine leaders from committing a conflicting
value.
Why does a single phase of votes not suffice to commit?
Using only one voting phase would reduce latency to two
rounds—one for the proposal and one for voting. However,
this breaks safety across views even with f < n/3 Byzantine
faults. For example, suppose a party Pi collects a certificate
Cv(B) from 2n/3 votes and commitsB, while others fail to see
enough votes due to asynchrony and commit nothing. In the
next view v + 1, the leader Lv+1 gathers 2n/3 reports, which
may exclude Pi and contain no locks. Since the leader cannot
wait for more than 2n/3 messages, even an honest Lv+1 may
propose B′ ̸= B, leading to a conflicting commitment or loss
of liveness (if honest parties choose not to vote for B′).
To reduce latency without sacrificing safety, our solution
builds on two key insights.
Key observation 1. In the earlier example, although only
party Pi locked or committed B, a quorum of 2n
3 parties had
voted for B. This information could be passed to the next
leader Lv+1 along with the locks. Equipped with these addi-
tional votes, the leader can make a more informed proposal:
for instance, if no locks are reported but sufficiently many
parties voted for B in view v, the leader can safely re-propose
B in view v + 1.
However, this strategy does not always preserve safety
when the system tolerates < n/3 Byzantine faults. Consider
the case where Lv equivocates by proposing both B and B′.
Suppose quorum Q1 of 2n
3 parties (including all Byzantine
ones) votes for B, while the remaining n
3 honest parties (Q2)
vote for B′. Then, some party Pi ∈ Q1 may gather Cv(B) and
commit B, while others fail to see enough votes and initiate
a view change. In view v + 1, leader Lv+1 receives responses
from a quorum Q3 of 2n
3 parties. In the worst case, Q3 over-
laps with Q1 in only one honest party, while including all
Byzantine parties and all of Q2. If Byzantine parties claim
they voted for B′, Lv+1 will observe up to 2n
3 − 1 votes for
B′ but only a single vote for B. Seeing strong support for B′,
an honest leader may re-propose B′—yet this contradicts the
fact that Pi has already committed B. Depending on how par-
ties respond, this can either break safety (if B′ is committed)
or stall progress (if honest parties refuse to vote), violating
liveness.
Key observation 2. The attack described earlier hinges on
Byzantine parties equivocating—voting for B in view v but
later reporting that they voted for B′ (or nothing) during the
view change. But what if not all tolerated faults are Byzantine?
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
Q1: Parties that voted 
for B in view v
|Q1| = n-p
Q2:  View change 
messages received by 
the leader of view v+1
|Q2| = n-f-c
Q1     Q2 contains 
at least f+p+1 honest parties 
Figure 1: Ensuring safety and liveness across views.
In Hydrangea, unlike traditional partially synchronous pro-
tocols that only support three-round commits, we work in a
slightly weaker model with both Byzantine and crash faults.
For n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1 parties, the protocol provides two
commit modes: (i) Fast commit with one round of votes, tol-
erating up to p = ⌊(c + k)/2⌋ faults (Byzantine or crash), and
(ii) slow commit with two rounds of votes, tolerating up to f
Byzantine and c crash faults.
To see why this works, consider a fast commit in view v.
Suppose party Pi collects n − p votes for a value B, forming
quorum Q1. Even after a view change, the new leader Lv+1
receives at leastn − f −c responses (quorum Q2). By quorum
intersection, at least f + p +1 of these responses will indicate
a vote for B in view v. No other value can gather that much
support, so the leader is forced (via validation checks) to re-
propose B in view v + 1. This guarantees both safety and
liveness across views.
For clarity, this overview made some simplifications. We
described agreement on a single value, while the actual pro-
tocol handles sequences of values (blocks Bm at position m
in the log). We also illustrated only the case where no other
parties were locked in view v and considered a single view
change, though the protocol handles all general cases. Finally,
we omitted details of slow-commit quorum sizes; as shown
later, these are smaller than 2n
3 , making our protocol more
efficient than traditional partial-synchrony designs.
3 Preliminaries
We consider a system P := P1, . . . ,Pn consisting of n = 3 f +
2c + k + 1 parties, where up to f parties may be Byzantine
and up to c parties may suffer crash faults. The parameter k
satisfies 0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 4 when c is even, and 0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f +
c − 3 when c is odd. Byzantine parties can behave arbitrarily,
while crashed parties cease communication after crashing. A
party that remains fault-free throughout the execution and
follows the protocol correctly is referred to as honest.
We assume the partial synchrony model introduced by
Dwork et al. [12]. In this model, the system begins in an
asynchronous state during which the adversary can arbitrarily
delay messages between honest parties. After an unknown
point in time, known as the Global Stabilization Time (GST),
the network becomes partially synchronous: all messages sent
by honest parties are guaranteed to be delivered within a fixed
delay ∆. We use δ to denote the actual (and possibly variable)
message transmission delays, and note that δ ≤ ∆ after GST.
Furthermore, we assume that parties’ local clocks exhibitno
drift but may have arbitrary skew.
We assume the existence of digital signatures and a public-
key infrastructure (PKI) to prevent spoofing, protect against
replay attacks, and enable message authentication. We use
⟨x⟩i to denote a message x digitally signed by party Pi using
its private key. We useH(x) to denote the application of the
cryptographic hash function H on input x.
3.1 Property Definitions
Definition 1 (Partially Synchronous Byzantine Broadcast [3]).
A partially synchronous Byzantine broadcast protocol pro-
vides the following properties.
• Agreement. If two honest parties commit values m and m′
respectively, then m = m′. .
• V alidity.If the designated broadcaster is honest and GST=
0, then all honest parties commit the broadcaster’s value. .
• Termination. All honest parties commit and terminate after
GST.
Definition 2 (Good-case Latency [3]) . A partially syn-
chronous Byzantine broadcast protocol has good-case latency
of R rounds under partial synchrony, if all honest parties com-
mit within R synchronous rounds (over all executions and
adversarial strategies), given the designated broadcaster is
honest and GST = 0.
Definition 3 (Optimistic Good-case Latency) . A partially
synchronous Byzantine broadcast protocol has an optimistic
good-case latency of R rounds if, under partial synchrony, all
honest parties commit within R synchronous rounds provided
that: (i) the designated broadcaster is honest, (ii) at least no
parties behave honestly for some parameter no > n − f − c,
and (iii) GST= 0.
Our upper bound protocol achieves an optimistic good-case
latency of 2 rounds when the designated broadcaster is honest,
no = n − p parties behave honestly for p = ⌊ c+k
2 ⌋, and GST
= 0.
State Machine Replication. A state machine replication
(SMR) protocol run by a network P of n nodes receives re-
quests (transactions) from external parties, called clients, as
input, and outputs a totally ordered log of these requests. We
recall the definition of SMR given in [2], below.
Definition 4 (Byzantine Fault-Tolerant State Machine Repli-
cation [2]). A Byzantine fault-tolerant state machine replica-
tion protocol commits client requests as a linearizable log to
provide a consistent view of the log akin to a single non-faulty
node, providing the following two guarantees.
• Safety. Honest parties do not commit different values at the
same log position.
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
• Liveness. Each client request is eventually committed by all
honest parties.
4 A Lower Bound on Resilience for Optimistic
Good-case Latency
In this section, we establish a lower bound on the resilience
required to achieve optimistic good-case latency in partially
synchronous Byzantine broadcast protocols, under the con-
straint n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1, where 0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 4 if c is
even, and 0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 3 if c is odd. The proof of the
lower bound is illustrated in Figure 2.
Intuition. The key intuition behind the lower bound is the
ability of a set of f + c parties to split the others into two
groups of f + p (for p = ⌊ c+k+2
2 ⌋) parties that disagree (cf.
Figure 2). The f +c parties include the senders, a setC of size
f − 1 and the set F of size c and the two groups include sets
A ∪ B and D ∪ E (World 3). The disagreement occurs despite
the ability of the two sets A ∪ B and D ∪ E to communicate
with each other. This is because parties in set A (of size p)
need to be able to commit some value when it is unable to
receive messages from the f + c parties. This is the situation
in a world (World 2) where it does not receive messages from
C and F, and a different set D and the sender are Byzantine.
In this world, despite E receiving an input 1 from the sender
(and Byzantine D stating that it received 1 from the sender),
we show that A will still output 0. This is to agree with the
set C, who in the same world (World 2) can output 0 in two-
rounds based on messages it receives from all parties except
from the ones in set E. This can happen if the Byzantine set
D behaves with C as if it received 0 from the sender. In this
situation, C outputs 0 to be consistent with a world where all
parties are honest except E (containing parties that are either
crashed or Byzantine), and the sender sends 0 (World 1). A
similar argument applies for why the set E will output 1 in
World 3 causing a disagreement with set A.
Theorem 3. There does not exist an authenticated, partially
synchronous Byzantine broadcast protocol that tolerates f
Byzantine faults and c crash faults simultaneously under n =
3 f + 2c + k + 1, for
(
0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 4 if c is even,
0 ≤ k ≤ 2 f + c − 3 if c is odd,
and achieves an optimistic good-case latency of two rounds
while tolerating more than p = ⌊ c+k+2
2 ⌋ faults.
Proof. Suppose, for the sake of contradiction, that there exists
a protocol which achieves an optimistic good-case latency
of two rounds under the constraint n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1 even
when tolerating p + 1 i.e., ⌊ c+k+2
2 ⌋ + 1 faults. Observe that
for the given range of k, we have p + 1 ≤ f + c. We will
construct a sequence of executions (worlds) and use an in-
distinguishability argument to demonstrate a violation of the
agreement property of such a protocol. To construct our ar-
gument, we divide the n parties into the designated broad-
caster s and six mutually disjoint sets: A, B, C, D, E, and F,
such that |B| = |C| = |D| = f − 1 and |A| = |E| = ⌊ c+k+4
2 ⌋.
When c + k is odd, we set |F| = c; otherwise we set |F| =
c − 1. This ensures that the total number of parties satisfies
1 + |A| + |B| + |C| + |D| + |E| + |F| = n.
World 1 (W1). The network is synchronous, i.e., GST = 0.
The designated broadcaster s is honest, while the parties in set
E are fault (either Byzantine or crashed). Since |E| = p + 1
and p+1 ≤ f +c, it follows that|E| ≤ f +c, thereby allowing
all parties in E to be faulty (either Byzantine or crashed). The
broadcaster sends the value 0 to all parties.
Since the broadcaster is honest and there are at most p + 1
faults, the optimistic good-case latency guarantee and the
validity property ensure that parties in C commit 0 within 2
rounds, after they deliver all round-0 and round-1 messages.
By termination, parties in A, B, D, and F commit 0.
World 5 (W5). The network is synchronous, i.e., GST = 0.
The designated broadcaster s is honest, while the parties in set
E are faulty (either Byzantine or crashed). Since |A| = p + 1
and p +1 ≤ f +c, it follows that|A| ≤ f +c, thereby allowing
all parties in A to be faulty (either Byzantine or crashed). The
broadcaster sends the value 1 to all parties.
Since the broadcaster is honest and there are at most p + 1
faults, the optimistic good-case latency guarantee and the
validity property ensure that parties in C commit 1 within 2
rounds, after they deliver all round-0 and round-1 messages.
By termination, parties in B, D, E, and F commit 1.
World 2 (W2). The network remains asynchronous until after
parties in sets A, C, and E commit—that is, GST occurs after
parties in A, C, and E commit. The broadcaster and parties
in set D are Byzantine. The broadcaster sends the value 0 to
parties in sets A, B, C, and F and the value 1 to parties in E.
It emulates the behavior of W1 when interacting with parties
in A, B, C, and F, and the behavior of W5 when interacting
with E during the first two rounds, and then remains silent
thereafter. The Byzantine parties inD behave according toW1
when interacting with parties in C, and act as honest parties
with input 1 from the broadcaster when communicating with
all other parties. Furthermore:
- All messages from parties in C, except their round-0 mes-
sages, are delayed indefinitely until after GST.
- All messages from E to C are also delayed indefinitely until
GST.
- Round-1 messages from F are delivered only to C; their
delivery to all other parties is delayed until GST.
Claim 1. The parties in C cannot distinguish between W1
and W2 prior to receiving round-2 messages.
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
Figure 2: Resilience lower bound for optimistic good-case latency of psync Byzantine broadcast under n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1.
Proof. The round-0 messages sent by a party depend solely
on its initial state. Therefore, the round-0 messages received
by parties in A, B, C, and F, along with their senders, are iden-
tical in both W1 and W2. The broadcaster behaves identically
in both worlds toward parties in A, B, C, and F during the
first two rounds, leading these parties to send identical round-
1 messages in both executions. Furthermore, the Byzantine
parties in D behave identically in both W1 and W2 toward
parties in C. In both worlds, the parties in C do not receive
any messages from E prior to GST. As a result, the view of
the protocol execution from the perspective of parties in C
remains indistinguishable between W1 and W2 until they
receive round-2 messages. ■
World 4 (W4). The network remains asynchronous until after
parties in sets A, C, and E commit—that is, GST occurs after
parties in A, C, and E commit. The broadcaster and parties in
set B are Byzantine. The broadcaster sends the value 1 to par-
ties in setsC, D, E and F and the value0 to parties inA. It then
emulates the behavior of W5 when interacting with parties
in C, D, E and F, and the behavior of W1 when interacting
with A during the first two rounds, and then remains silent
thereafter. The Byzantine parties in B behave according to
W5 when interacting with parties in C, and act as honest par-
ties with input 0 from the broadcaster when communicating
with all other parties. Furthermore:
- All messages from parties in C, except their round-0 mes-
sages, are delayed indefinitely until after GST.
- All messages from A to C are also delayed indefinitely until
GST.
- Round-1 messages from F are delivered only to C; their
delivery to all other parties is delayed until GST.
Claim 2. The parties in C cannot distinguish between W4
and W5 prior to receiving round-2 messages.
Proof. The round-0 messages sent by a party depend solely
on its initial state. Therefore, the round-0 messages received
by parties in C, D, E, and F, along with their senders, are
identical in both W4 and W5. The broadcaster behaves iden-
tically in both worlds toward parties in C, D, E, and F during
the first two rounds, resulting in identical round-1 messages
sent by these parties in the two executions. Furthermore, the
Byzantine parties in B behave identically in both W4 and W5
toward parties in C. In both worlds, the parties in C do not
receive any messages from A prior to GST. As a result, the
view of the protocol execution from the perspective of parties
in C remains indistinguishable between W4 and W5 until
they receive round-2 messages. ■
World 3 (W3). The network remains asynchronous until after
parties in A and E commits (i.e., GST occurs after parties in
A and E commit).
The broadcaster and parties in C are Byzantine. The broad-
caster sends 0 to parties in A, B and 1 to parties in D, E. Then
the broadcaster behaves to parties in A and B similar to W2
and to parties in D and E similar to W4. The Byzantine par-
ties in C sends round-0 messages to parties in A, B, D and
E, but do not send any messages thereafter. The parties in F
sends only round-0 messages and become crashed thereafter.
Claim 3. The parties in A cannot distinguish between W2
and W3 prior to GST.
Proof. The parties in A receive round-0 messages from par-
ties in B, C, D, E, and F in both W2 and W3, and these
messages are identical since they depend only on the parties’
initial states. The broadcaster behaves identically in both W2
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
and W3 toward parties in A and B during the first two rounds.
The Byzantine parties in C do not send any messages (beyond
round-0) to parties in A in W3, which is identical to W2,
where messages from C to A are indefinitely delayed until
GST.
Similarly, the Byzantine parties in D in W2 behave identi-
cally to those in W3. The parties in E also behave identically
in both executions, as their input from the broadcaster and
their received messages are the same. Moreover, parties in A
do not receive any messages from parties inF beyond round-0
messages in either execution.
Thus, the parties in A cannot distinguish between W2 and
W3 prior to GST. ■
Claim 4. The parties in E cannot distinguish between W3
and W4 prior to GST.
Proof. The parties in E receive round-0 messages from par-
ties in A, B, C, D, and F in both W3 and W4, and these mes-
sages are identical since they depend only on the parties’
initial states. The broadcaster behaves identically in both W3
and W4 toward parties in D and E during the first two rounds.
The Byzantine parties in C do not send any messages (beyond
round-0) to parties in E in W3, which is identical to W4,
where messages from C to E are indefinitely delayed until
GST.
Similarly, the Byzantine parties in B in W4 behave identi-
cally to those in W3. The parties in A also behave identically
in both executions, as their input from the broadcaster and
their received messages are the same. Moreover, parties in E
do not receive any messages from parties inF beyond round-0
messages in either execution.
Thus, the parties in E cannot distinguish between W3 and
W4 prior to GST. ■
By Claim 1, parties in C cannot distinguish between W1
and W2 prior to receiving round-2 messages. Thus, parties in
C commit 0 in W2. By termination, parties in A and E also
commit 0 in W2. Similarly, by Claim 2 parties in C cannot
distinguish between W4 and W5 prior to receiving round-2
messages. Thus, parties inC commit 1 in W4. By termination,
parties in A and E also commit 1 in W4.
By Claim 3, the parties in A cannot distinguish between
W2 and W3 prior to GST. Moreover, there are at most f
Byzantine and c crash faults in W3. Since, the parties in A
committed 0 in W2, they will also commit 0 inW3. Similarly,
by Claim 4, the parties in E cannot distinguish between W3
and W4 prior to GST. Since, the parties in E committed 1
in W4, they will also commit 1 in W3. Thus, agreement is
violated. A contradiction.
5 The Hydrangea Protocol
In this section, we present Hydrangea, a consensus protocol
that attains an optimistic good-case latency of two rounds
in systems with n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1 parties, provided that at
most p = ⌊ c+k
2 ⌋ parties (Byzantine or crash) are faulty. In
the general case with up to f Byzantine and c crash faults,
Hydrangea guarantees a good-case latency of three rounds.
Moreover, Hydrangea satisfies the standard notion of opti-
mistic responsiveness [32], ensuring progress at the speed of
the network.
5.1 Protocol Definitions
View-based execution. Our protocol progresses through a
sequence of numbered views, starting with all parties in view
1 and advancing to higher views as execution continues. Each
view v has a designated leader Lv responsible for proposing a
new block. The leader for each view is rotated, independent
of the progress made within that view.
Blocks and block format. Client requests are grouped into
blocks, each of which references its predecessor, except for
the genesis block, which has no predecessor. The position of
a block in the chain is referred to as its height. A block Bm at
height m is represented as Bm := (bm,H(Bm−1)), where bm is
the block’s content andH(Bm−1) is the hash of its predecessor
block Bm−1. The genesis block has ⊥ as its predecessor. A
block Bm is considered valid if: (1) its predecessor is valid
(or is ⊥ when m = 1), and (2) the client requests it contains
satisfy application-level validity conditions and are consistent
with the sequence of requests in its ancestor blocks. Finally,
we say that a block Bm extends a block Bl (m ≥ l) if Bl is an
ancestor of Bm. Note that a block trivially extends itself. Two
blocks Bm and B′
m′ equivocate (or conflict) if they are distinct
and neither extends the other.
Block certificate and weak block certificate.In our protocol,
a party sends a signed vote message to indicate its acceptance
of a block. A block certificate Cv(Bm) for view v consists of
a ⌈ n+ f +1
2 ⌉ distinct signed vote messages for Bm for v. We
use Cv to denote a block certificate for view v when the spe-
cific block it certifies is not relevant to the context. Block
certificates are ranked by views, i.e., Cv ≤ Cv′ if v ≤ v′.
Additionally, we define a weak block certificateW Cv(Bm)
for view v as a collection of f + p + 1 distinct signed vote
messages for block Bm in view v. Weak block certificates are
also ranked by view number, with W Cv(Bm) ≤ W Cv′(Bh)
if v ≤ v′. To compare a block certificate Cv(Bm) and a weak
block certificate W Cv′(Bh), we rank Cv(Bm) higher if v ≥ v′,
and otherwise W Cv′(Bh) ranks higher.
Timeout messages and timeout certificates. To ensure live-
ness, our protocol require parties to initiate a leader change
if they observe no progress in their current view within a
certain time threshold. Parties signal this by sending signed
timeout messages for the view, which include their most re-
cently voted block and the highest weak block certificate or
the highest-ranked block certificate they have seen. Atimeout
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
certificate for view v, denoted T C v, is formed by collecting
n − f − c distinct signed timeout messages for view v.
Progress certificates and safe block. We use the notion of
progress certificatesto justify that a leader in a given view can
propose a block and that the proposed block is safe to vote.
Each progress certificate is associated with a view v and is
denoted by P Cv; it is used to propose blocks in view v + 1. A
progress certificate in viewv is either a viewv block certificate
Cv or a timeout certificate T C v. The purpose of P Cv is to
determine the safe block in view v—a block such that no
conflicting (equivocating) block could have been committed,
and which is therefore safe to extend.
Note that P Cv comprises block certificates, weak block
certificates, and the highest votes included in the timeout
messages (in the case where P Cv = T C v). If the highest vote
messages included in P Cv provide sufficient support for a
common block, a weak block certificate can be constructed
from them. The safe block is then selected as the block as-
sociated with the highest-ranked certificate—either a block
certificate or a weak block certificate.
5.2 Protocol Details
Our protocol is outlined in Figure 3, with the key steps de-
scribed below for view v.
Advance View and Timeout. Party Pi enters view v from
some earlier view v′ < v upon receiving either a view v − 1
block certificate or a view v − 1 timeout certificate. In the for-
mer case, it updates its lock locki and then multicasts Cv−1 to
assist with view synchronization. In the latter case,Pi unicasts
T C v−1 to Lv to ensure that Lv enters view v within ∆ time of
the first honest party doing so after GST. Finally, Pi enters
view v, resets view-timeri to 3∆, and begins the countdown.
If the leader Lv is honest and the network is synchronous,
then party Pi is expected to enter view v + 1 within 3∆ of
entering view v. If this does not happen, Pi assumes the leader
has failed and multicasts ⟨timeout,v, h-certi, hvi⟩Pi to trigger
a view change and ensure the protocol makes progress. Addi-
tionally, Pi performs the same action upon observing that any
other honest party has initiated a view change for some view
v′ ≥ v. Here, h-certi denotes the highest-ranked certificate
(either a block certificate or a weak block certificate), and hvi
is the highest vote previously sent by Pi.
Propose. The leader Lv proposes a block Bm by multicasting
a proposal of the form ⟨propose,Bm,P Cv−1,v⟩Lv, where Bm
extends a block Bm−1 proposed in a prior view v′ < v, and
Bm−1 is the safe block determined from P Cv−1 using the rule
defined above. Note that P Cv−1 is set to Cv−1(Bm−1) if Lv
has received it; otherwise, it is set to T C v−1.
Vote. When a party Pi receives the first proposal
⟨propose,Bm,P Cv−1,v⟩Lv from Lv in view v, it proceeds as
follows. If Pi has not yet sent a vote in view v or a timeout
message for view v or higher, and if Bm extends the safe
block Bm−1 determined by P Cv−1, then it updates its hvi to
⟨vote,H(Bm),v⟩Pi and multicasts hvi to all parties. Further-
more, if Bm−1 is considered safe due to a weak block cer-
tificate W Cv′(Bm−1) contained in P Cv−1, then Pi also sets
hwci := W Cv′(Bm−1).
Pre-commit. Our protocol includes two pre-commit rules
for sending explicit commit messages. Under the direct pre-
commit rule, a party Pi sends ⟨commit,H(Bm),v⟩Pi upon re-
ceiving Cv(Bm) while in any view v′ ≤ v, provided it has not
sent a timeout message in view v or higher. Note that our
protocol allows parties to jump to a higher view v′ upon re-
ceiving Cv′−1. Since the direct pre-commit rule requires that
parties be in view v′′ ≤ v in order to send a commit message
for Bm, this may prevent a commit from being sent when a
party jumps to a higher view. To ensure that blocks are still
committed even when parties jump to higher views, our proto-
col includes an indirect pre-commit rule: a party Pi may send
a commit message for block Bm upon receiving Cv(Bm) in
any view if it has already sent a commit message for one of
its descendants, provided it has not sent a timeout message
for view v or higher.
Commit. Our protocol includes two direct commit rules: (i)
the fast commit rule, and (ii) the slow commit rule. An honest
party Pi directly commits a block Bm using whichever rule
is triggered first during protocol execution. Specifically, Pi
commits Bm via the fast commit rule when it receives n − p
distinct vote messages for Bm in view v. Alternatively, Pi
directly commits Bm via the slow commit rule when it receives
2 f +c +1 distinct messages of the form⟨commit,H(Bm),v⟩∗.
Note that when Pi directly commits Bm, it also indirectly
commits all of Bm’s uncommitted ancestor blocks.
Intuition behind the safe block selection in P Cv. This in-
tuition is the crux of the safety and liveness of our protocol;
it generalizes the description in Section 2 to a sequence of
blocks. In our protocol, once a block certificate for block Bℓ
exists in some view v′, no conflicting block certificate can
exist for the same view due to standard quorum intersection
guarantees. Furthermore, an equivocating block cannot be
committed via the fast commit rule in view v′. This follows
from the fact that certifying Bℓ requires votes from a quorum
Q of at least ⌈ n− f +1
2 ⌉ honest parties. For a conflicting block
B′
ℓ′ proposed in the same viewv′ to be fast-committed, it must
receive votes from a setQ ′ of at least n − p − f honest parties.
However, since |Q ∩ Q ′| > 1, at least one honest party would
need to vote for both Bℓ and B′
ℓ′, which is disallowed by pro-
tocol rules. Therefore, the only block that could have possibly
been committed by any honest party is Bℓ. Consequently, we
prioritize a block certificate (when available) in the same or
higher view when selecting the safe block in the progress
certificate.
On the other hand, suppose a block Bh proposed in view
v′ is committed via the fast commit rule. Then there exists
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
Each party Pi runs the following protocol while in view v:
1. Propose. Upon entering viewv, the leaderLv multicasts a proposal of the form⟨propose,Bm,P Cv−1,v⟩Lv, where Bm extends a blockBm−1
that was proposed in a previous view v′ < v, and Bm−1 is considered a safe block according to the accompanying P Cv−1. Specifically,
P Cv−1 is set to Cv−1(Bm−1) if Lv entered view v upon receiving this certificate; otherwise, P Cv−1 is set to T C v−1.
2. Vote.Upon receiving the first proposal⟨propose,Bm,P Cv−1,v⟩Lv from leader Lv, such the following conditions hold: (i)timeout_viewi <
v, (ii) Bm−1 is a safe block according to P Cv−1, and (iii) Bm extends Bm−1, then party Pi sets hvi := ⟨vote,H(Bm),v⟩Pi and multicasts
hvi to all parties while still in view v. If Bm−1 is deemed safe due to a weak block certificate W Cv′ (Bm−1) included in P Cv−1, then
hwci := W Cv′ (Bm−1).
3. Direct Pre-commit. Upon receiving Cv(Bm) whilst in any view v′ ≤ v if timeout_viewi < v, multicast ⟨commit,H(Bm),v⟩Pi.
4. Indirect Pre-commit. Upon receiving Cv(Bm) in any view, if a party has previously multicast a commit for any descendant of Bm and its
timeout_viewi < v, then it multicasts ⟨commit,H(Bm),v⟩Pi if it has not already done so.
5. Timeout. When view-timeri expires, party Pi multicasts ⟨timeout,v, h-certi, hvi⟩Pi (if it has not already done so) and updates
timeout_viewi to max(timeout_viewi,v). Furthermore, upon receiving either f + 1 distinct messages of the form ⟨timeout,v′,_,_⟩∗ or a
valid T C v′ for some v′ ≥ v, it multicasts ⟨timeout,v′, h-certi, hvi⟩Pi and updates timeout_viewi to max(timeout_viewi,v′). Here, h-certi
refers to the higher-ranked certificate between locki and hwci.
6. Advance View. Pi enters v′ where v′ > v using one of the following rules:
- Upon receiving Cv′−1(Bh). Also, multicast Cv′−1(Bh).
- Upon receiving T C v′−1. Also, unicast T C v′−1 to Lv′.
Finally, reset view-timeri to 3∆ and start counting down.
Pi additionally performs the following actions in any view:
1. Lock. Upon receiving Cv(Bm) in any protocol message whilst having locki = Cv′ (Bm′ ) such that v > v′, set locki to Cv(Bm).
2. Direct Commit. Pi directly commits Bm whilst in any view using one of the following rules:
- (Fast Commit.) Upon receiving n − p distinct ⟨vote,H(Bm),v⟩∗ messages,
- (Slow Commit.) Upon receiving 2f + c + 1 distinct ⟨commit,H(Bm),v⟩∗ messages.
3. Indirect Commit. Upon directly committing Bm, commit all of its uncommitted ancestors.
Figure 3: Hydrangea: Optimistic Two-Round BFT SMR under n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1
a set S of at least n − f − p honest parties that voted for Bh
in view v′. Since honest parties include their highest vote
and any weak block certificate they observe in subsequent
timeout messages, and a T C v′′ (for some v′′ ≥ v′) consists of
at least n − f − c such messages, the intersection between the
senders of these timeout messages and the set S contains at
least f + p + 1 honest parties. By protocol design, we ensure
that block certificate for a conflicting block cannot exist in any
view v′′ ≥ v′. Consequently, P Cv must contain W Cv′(Bh) or
a higher-ranked certificate.
Furthermore, no equivocating block proposed in view v′ or
earlier can have gathered more than f + p votes, since honest
parties vote only once per view. Although a block certificate
Cv∗(Bℓ) for some view v∗ < v′ may also be present in P Cv,
the presence of at least f + 1 votes for Bh in view v′ implies
one of the following must hold: either Bh extends Bℓ, or Bℓ
was not committed. Our protocol ensures that if a block Bℓ
is committed (via either commit rule), then all honest parties
will only vote for blocks extending Bℓ in subsequent views.
Therefore, if Bℓ were committed, Bh must extend it. Hence,
it is safe to ignore any block certificate for view v′′ < v′,
and the only safe block to extend in P Cv is Bh or one of its
descendants.
Communication complexity. Hydrangea requires parties to
include their lock or hwc and their highest vote in timeout mes-
sages. Consequently, timeout certificates—and any proposal
that uses a timeout certificate as its progress certificate—are
naturally of size O(n). This results in an O(n2) communica-
tion cost for the proposal action in each view.
Similarly, the all-to-all multicasting of O(1)-sized timeout
messages (when threshold signatures are employed), vote
messages, commit messages, and block certificates, along
with the forwarding of timeout certificates to the next leader,
each incurs O(n2) communication. Therefore, the overall com-
munication complexity of our protocol is O(n2) per view
when threshold signatures are used.
5.3 Security Analysis of Hydrangea
Claim 5. If Cv(Bm) and Cv(Bℓ) exist, then Bm = Bℓ.
Proof. Suppose, for the sake of contradiction, that two con-
flicting certificates Cv(Bm) and Cv(Bℓ) exist for view v, where
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
Bm ̸= Bℓ. Each certificate must contain votes from at least
⌈ n+ f +1
2 ⌉ parties in view v. Therefore, the overlap between
the two voting sets is at least⌈ n+ f +1
2 ⌉ + ⌈ n+ f +1
2 ⌉ −n ≥ f +1,
implying at least one honest party must have voted for both
Bm and Bℓ in the same view, which contradicts the condition
that honest parties vote for at most one block per view.
Claim 6. A set Q of n − f − p honest parties and a set Q ′ of
n − 2 f − c honest parties must intersect in at least f + p + 1
honest parties.
Proof. The intersection of Q and Q ′ has size at least n − f −
p +n −2 f −c − (n − f ) = f +c +k +1 − p. We now analyze
this quantity based on the parity of c + k:
- When c + k is even, p = c+k
2 ; so, f + c + k + 1 − p =
f + c+k
2 + 1 = f + p + 1.
- When c + k is odd, p = c+k−1
2 ; so f + c + k + 1 − p =
f + c+k+1
2 + 1 > f + p + 1.
Thus, in both cases, the intersection has size at least f + p + 1
honest parties.
Claim 7. If a block Bm proposed in view v is directly com-
mitted using the fast commit rule and a corresponding T C v
exists, then v must be the highest view in T C v with at least
f + p + 1 votes for some block—and that block must be Bm.
Furthermore, no other block in view v has more than f + p
votes in T C v.
Proof. For a block Bm to be directly committed via the fast
commit rule, it must receive at least n − p votes in view v,
which includes a subset Q of at least n − f − p honest parties.
Consequently, at most p honest parties could have voted for
a conflicting block in the same view. Additionally, up to f
Byzantine parties may also vote for a conflicting block. Hence,
any conflicting block in view v can accumulate at most f + p
votes in total.
The corresponding T C v consists of timeout messages from
a set Q ′ of at least n − 2 f − c honest parties. By Claim 6, the
intersection of Q and Q ′ includes at least f + p+1 honest par-
ties. Therefore, at least f + p + 1 honest parties contributing
to T C v must have voted for Bm in view v. Since v represents
the highest view reflected in T C v and no other block in view
v can gather more than f + p votes, Bm remains the unique
block with sufficient support. The claim follows.
Lemma 1. If an honest party directly commits block Bm
proposed in view v using the fast commit rule, and Bm′ is the
safe block as per P Cv′ such that v′ ≥ v then Bm′ extends Bm.
Proof. Suppose an honest party Pi directly commits block
Bm proposed in view v using the fast commit rule, having
received at least n − p vote messages for Bm. This ensures
that a set Q of at least n − f − p honest parties voted for Bm
in view v. We first consider the case wherev′ = v. If P Cv is a
block certificate for view v, then by Claim 5, no conflicting
block certificate can exist in the same view. Hence, P Cv =
Cv(Bm), and Bm is the only safe block. Next, we consider the
case where P Cv = T C v, and specifically when T C v does not
contain Cv(Bm). In this case, by Claim 7, Bm remains the only
block that receives f + p + 1 votes in view v. Since v is the
highest view in P Cv, only Bm qualifies as a safe block under
P Cv.
We now consider the case wherev′ > v. Suppose, for contra-
diction, that there exists P Cv′ at the lowest such view v′ > v,
where the associated safe block Bm′ does not extend Bm. Note
that P Cv′ could either be Cv′(Bm′ ) or T C v′. First, consider
the case where P Cv′ = Cv′ (Bm′). For this certificate to exist,
at least ⌈ n− f +1
2 ⌉ honest parties must have voted for Bm′ in
view v′. However, by assumption, in every intermediate view
v ≤ v′′ < v′, the safe block determined by P Cv′′ extends Bm.
Since honest parties vote only for blocks that extend the safe
block from the previous view, they would not have voted for
Bm′ in view v′ unless it also extended Bm. This contradicts the
assumption that Bm′ does not extend Bm. A similar argument
rules out the existence of a weak block certificate or block
certificate for a conflicting block in any view v′′ such that
v ≤ v′′ ≤ v′.
Now, consider the case whereP Cv′ = T C v′, which consists
of timeout messages from view v′ sent by n − f − c parties,
among which a subset Q ′ of at least n − 2 f − c are honest.
By Claim 6, Q and Q ′ intersect in set S of at least f + p + 1
honest parties. As mentioned before, honest parties do not
vote for blocks in view v′ if it does not extend Bm. Therefore,
all honest parties in S must have last voted in views v′′ such
that v ≤ v′′ ≤ v′, and these votes must extend Bm. If these
honest parties did not vote in any view higher thanv, then their
high votes in view v will be included in T C v′, collectively
forming W Cv(Bm). If instead they voted in a higher view
v′′ > v, they would either update their hwc to W Cv(Bm) (or a
higher ranked one), or update their lock to a block certificate
from some view in the range [v,v′ − 1]. As shown earlier,
all weak block certificates and block certificates in views
v ≤ v′′ ≤ v′ must extend Bm. Therefore, T C v′ must include
either a block certificate for some view in the range [v,v′ − 1]
or a weak block certificate from some view v′′ such that it
extends Bm. Thus, the safe block computed from T C v′ must
necessarily extend Bm, contradicting the assumption that the
safe block determined by P Cv′ does not extend Bm.
Lemma 2. If an honest party directly commits block Bm
proposed in view v using the slow commit rule, and Bm′ is the
safe block determined by P Cv′ for some view v′ ≥ v, then Bm′
must extend Bm.
Proof. Suppose an honest party Pi directly commits block
Bm proposed in view v using the slow commit rule, having
received at least 2 f + c + 1 commit messages for Bm. This
implies that a set Q of at least f + c + 1 honest parties must
have received Cv(Bm) before sending a timeout message for
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
view v or exiting the view. Consequently, the progress certifi-
cate P Cv must be the block certificate Cv(Bm), since at least
f +c +1 honest parties observed it and this intersects with the
n − f − c messages in the timeout certificate T C v. Moreover,
by Claim 5, no conflicting block certificate can exist in view
v. Hence, P Cv = Cv(Bm), and Bm extends itself.
We now consider the case where v′ > v. Suppose, for the
sake of contradiction, that there exists a progress certificate
P Cv′ for some lowest viewv′ > v such that the corresponding
safe block Bm′ does not extend Bm. Note that P Cv′ could
either be a block certificate Cv′(Bm′ ) or a timeout certificate
T C v′. First, consider the case where P Cv′ = Cv′(Bm′). For
such a certificate to exist, at least⌈ n− f +1
2 ⌉ honest parties must
have voted for Bm′ in view v′. However, by assumption, in
every view v′′ such that v ≤ v′′ < v′, the safe block identified
by P Cv′′ extends Bm, and honest parties vote only for blocks
that extend the safe block of the previous view. Therefore,
honest parties would not have voted for Bm′ in view v′ if it
did not extend Bm. This leads to a contradiction. This implies
that no block certificate for a conflicting block (i.e., one that
does not extend Bm) can exist in the range of views [v,v′].
Now consider the case whereP Cv′ = T C v′, which consists
of timeout messages from view v′ sent by a set Q ′ of n −
f − c parties. As established earlier, honest parties do not
vote for blocks in view v′ unless those blocks extend Bm.
Let v∗ denote the view corresponding to the highest-ranked
weak block certificate present in P Cv′. If v < v∗ < v′, then
by assumption, all blocks voted for or potentially certified
in this range of views must extend Bm. As a result, the weak
block certificate for a block from viewv∗ must also extendBm.
Furthermore, if v∗ = v′, then the weak block certificate must
still extend Bm, since the safe block identified byP Cv∗−1 also
extends Bm. Alternatively, if v∗ ≤ v, then P Cv′ must include
either the block certificate Cv(Bm) or higher-ranked block
certificate, since the intersection of the honest voting sets Q
(from view v) and Q ′ (from view v′) contains at least one
honest party. As argued before all block certificates in the
range of views [v,v′] must extend Bm. Therefore, in either
case, the safe block determined from P Cv′ must extend Bm,
contradicting the assumption that it does not.
The proof of the following lemma (Lemma 3) follows im-
mediately from Lemma 1 and Lemma 2.
Lemma 3. If an honest party directly commits a block Bm
proposed in view v, and Bm′ is the safe block determined by
P Cv′ for some view v′ ≥ v, then Bm′ must extend Bm.
Theorem 4 (Safety). Honest parties do not commit different
values at the same log position.
Proof. We show that if two honest partiesPi and Pj commit
Bm and B′
m, then Bm = B′
m. Suppose, for the sake of contradic-
tion, that Pi and Pj commit Bm and B′
m but Bm ̸= B′
m. By the
indirect commit rule, both parties must have directly commit-
ted descendant blocks—specifically, Pi committed block Bℓ
in view v such that Bℓ extends Bm with ℓ ≥ m, and Pj commit-
ted block Bo in view v′ such that Bo extends B′
m with o ≥ m.
By Lemma 3, either v ≤ v′ and Bo extends Bl, or v ≥ v′ and
Bl extends Bo. Therefore, since Bl and Bo are a part of the
same chain and because each block in the chain has exactly
one parent, Bm = B′
m.
Claim 8. If an honest party enters view v then at least one
honest party must have already entered v− 1.
Proof. An honest party enters view v only after receiving
either a block certificate for viewv−1 (i.e., Cv−1) or a timeout
certificate (i.e., T C v−1). In the case of Cv−1, the voting rule
mandates that parties must be in view v − 1 when casting
votes, implying that at least one honest party was already in
view v − 1. In the case of T C v−1, at least one honest party
must have experienced a view timeout while in view v − 1
before any honest party can multicast a view v − 1 timeout
message. Therefore, in either case, an honest party can enter
view v only if at least one honest party has already entered
view v − 1.
Claim 9. If the first honest party enters view v at time t then
no honest party multicasts timeout for view v′ ≥ v before
t + 3∆.
Proof. Since t is defined as the time at which the first honest
party enters view v, the timeout rule guarantees that no honest
party’s view timer can expire in viewv before time t + 3∆. At
most f timeout messages for view v may exist prior to this
point, all from Byzantine parties. Because the timeout rule
requires an honest party to either (i) have its own view timer
expire in v or (ii) observe at least f + 1 timeout messages for
v before it can multicast a timeout message for v, no honest
party can send a timeout message for view v before time
t + 3∆.
Furthermore, by Claim 8, no honest party can enter any
view v′′ > v before time t. Applying the same reasoning, it
follows that no honest party can send a timeout message for
any view v′′ > v before time t + 3∆.
Corollary 1 follows from Claim 9 and the requirement that
timeout certificates be constructed from n − f − c of timeout
messages for the same view.
Corollary 1. If the first honest party enters view v at time t
then T C v′ cannot exist for v′ ≥ v before t + 3∆.
Claim 10. Let tg denote GST. If the first honest party to enter
view v, say Pi, does so at time t ≥ tg, then every honest party
enters view v or a higher view by time t + 2∆.
Proof. If an honest party enters view v′ ≥ v via a certificate
Cv′−1 before time t + ∆, then it must have multicast Cv′−1.
As a result, all honest parties will receive this certificate and
enter view v′ or higher before time t + 2∆. Now suppose that
no honest party enters view v′ via Cv′−1 before t + ∆. In this
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
case, Pi must have entered view v using a timeout certificate
T C v−1. This implies that at least n − 2 f − c honest parties
must have multicast viewv −1 timeout messages before time
t, and thus all honest parties will receive these messages by
time t + ∆.
Furthermore, since t is defined as the time at which the
first honest party enters view v, by Corollary 1, a valid T C v′
for any v′ ≥ v cannot exist before time t + 3∆. Consequently,
all honest parties must still be in view v or lower when they
receive the aforementioned timeout messages for view v − 1.
By the timeout rule, every honest party in view v − 1 or lower
that has not yet multicast a view v − 1 timeout messages will
do so by time t + ∆.
Moreover, every honest party that enters view v before this
time must have done so via T C v−1, and by the timeout rule,
must also multicast a timeout message for view v − 1 before
t + ∆. As a result, all honest parties will have multicast view
v − 1 timeout message by this time, enabling each of them to
construct T C v−1 before t + 2∆. Thus, every honest party will
enter view v or higher before time t + 2∆.
Lemma 4. Let tg denote GST. If the first honest party to enter
view v, say Pi, does so at time t, then all honest parties will
enter view v or higher by time max(tg,t) +3∆.
Proof. If t ≥ tg, then by Claim 10, all honest parties will enter
view v or higher before time max(tg,t) +2∆. Now consider
the case when t < tg. Let v′′ be the highest view reached by
any honest party at time tg, and let Pj be a party in view v′′ at
this moment. Note that v′′ ≥ v.
If any honest party enters a view higher than v′′, say v∗,
during the interval [tg,tg + ∆], then by Claim 10, all honest
parties will enter view v∗ > v or higher by time tg + 3∆ =
max(tg,t) +3∆.
Otherwise, assume no honest party enters a view higher
than v′′ before tg + ∆. If some honest party enters view v′′
via a block certificate Cv′′−1 before this time, then all honest
parties will enter v′′ before tg + 2∆ < max(tg,t) +3∆.
In the remaining case, Pj (and any other party in v′′ at time
tg) must have entered v′′ via a timeout certificate T C v′′−1 and
thus would have sent a timeout message for view v′′ − 1 no
later than the time of entry. Since a valid T C v′′−1 requires at
least n − 2 f − c honest parties to have sent timeout messages
before tg, all honest parties in views lower thanv′′ will receive
these messages by time tg + ∆. By the timeout rule, they will
multicast their own timeout messages for view v′′ − 1 if they
have not already done so.
As a result, all honest parties will multicast a timeout mes-
sage for view v′′ − 1 before tg + ∆, enabling them to construct
T C v′′−1 and enter view v′′ before tg + 2∆ < max(tg,t) +3∆.
Therefore, in all cases, every honest party will enter view v
or higher before time max(tg,t) +3∆.
Lemma 5. All honest parties keep entering increasing views.
Proof. Suppose, for the sake of contradiction, that at least one
honest party, say Pi, becomes stuck in view v, and let v′ be
the highest view reached by any honest party at any time. If
v′ > v, then by Lemma 4, Pi must eventually enter view v′ or
higher, contradicting the assumption that it remains stuck inv.
On the other hand, if v′ = v, then no honest party ever enters
a view higher than v. But since Lemma 4 guarantees that all
honest parties will eventually enter view v, this implies that
all honest parties become stuck in v. However, by the view
advancement and timeout rules, every honest party will even-
tually multicast a timeout message for view v, allowing them
to construct T C v and enter view v + 1. This again contradicts
the assumption that they remain stuck in v.
Claim 11. If the first honest party enters viewv at time t after
GST and the leader Lv is honest, then Lv will propose a block
by time t + ∆, and all honest parties will receive this proposal
by time t + 2∆.
Proof. Let Pi be the first honest party to enter viewv at time t.
By the view advancement rule, Pi may have entered v either
via a block certificate Cv−1 or a timeout certificate T C v−1. In
the former case, Pi multicasts Cv−1 to all parties; in the latter
case, it unicasts T C v−1 to the leader Lv. Thus, in either case,
the honest leader Lv will receive a valid certificate enabling it
to enter viewv and propose a block by timet +∆, according to
the proposal rule. SinceLv is honest, it multicasts the proposal,
ensuring that all honest parties receive it by time t + 2∆.
Lemma 6. If the first honest party enters viewv at time t after
GST and the leaderLv is honest, then all honest parties receive
the block certificate Cv(Bm) for some block Bm proposed by
Lv by time t + 3∆.
Proof. By Claim 5, only one block can be certified in a
given view. Thus, if Cv(Bm) exists, any party that receives
a view-v block certificate must receive Cv(Bm). Additionally,
by Claim 10 and Claim 11, all honest parties enter view v or
higher and receive the proposal from Lv by t + 2∆. Since t is
the time when the first honest party enters view v, no honest
party will multicast a view v timeout message before t + 3∆.
Therefore, if any honest party enters a view higher than v
before t + 2∆, then by Claim 8, some honest party must have
already entered v + 1 via Cv(Bm). By the view advancement
rule, this party would have multicast Cv(Bm), so all honest
parties receive this certificate byt + 3∆, completing the proof.
Alternatively, if no honest party receivesCv(Bm) before t +2∆,
then all honest parties will enter v before t + 2∆.
Since Lv is honest, it will create a proposal that extends the
safe block determined by P Cv−1 by time t + ∆, and all honest
parties will receive this proposal before t + 2∆. Moreover,
they cannot havetimeout_viewi ≥ v by this time. Thus, by the
voting rules, they will all vote for the proposed block, enabling
all honest parties to construct Cv(Bm) before t + 3∆.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
Lemma 7. If the first honest party to enter view v does so
at time t after GST and Lv is honest, then all honest parties
commit block Bm proposed by Lv by time t + 4∆.
Proof. By Lemma 6, all honest parties obtain Cv(Bm) for
the block Bm proposed by Lv by time t + 3∆. Consequently,
following the pre-commit rule, if each honest party multicasts
⟨commit,H(Bm),v⟩∗ upon receiving this certificate, then all
honest parties will commit Bm by time t + 4∆.
Otherwise, suppose for contradiction that at least one hon-
est party, say Pi, fails to send ⟨commit,H(Bm),v⟩∗ by t + 3∆.
However, by Claim 9, no honest party’s view timer can expire
before this time, so Pi must have timeout_viewi < v upon
receiving Cv(Bm).
Thus, by the pre-commit rules, upon receiving Cv(Bm), Pi
must neither be in view v or lower nor have previously multi-
cast a commit message for any descendant ofBm. Let v′ be the
view Pi is in upon receiving Cv(Bm). Since, by Corollary 1,
no timeout certificate for v or higher can exist before t + 3∆,
Pi must have entered v′ via a block certificate Cv′−1(Bl).
By the direct pre-commit rule, it must have multicast
⟨commit,H(Bl),v′ −1⟩i upon receiving this certificate, imply-
ing Bl is not a descendant of Bm. However, becausev′ > v +1
and the only way to transition between these views (before
t + 3∆) is via block certificates, and since Cv(Bm) exists and,
by Claim 5, no conflicting certificate exists in viewv, it fol-
lows that honest parties only vote for blocks in viewv +1 that
extend Bm. By induction, this impliesBl must be a descendant
of Bm, contradicting the earlier conclusion.
Therefore, all honest parties must multicast
⟨commit,H(Bm),v⟩∗ before t + 3∆, and hence all hon-
est parties commit Bm before t + 4∆.
Theorem 5 (Liveness). Each client request is eventually com-
mitted by all honest parties.
Proof. By Lemma 5, all honest parties continue to make
progress by entering higher views. As the leader rotates
across views, honest leaders will eventually be elected. Then,
by Lemma 7, any block proposed by an honest leader after
GST will be committed.
6 Evaluation
We evaluate the performance of Hydrangea by comparing
it against two baseline protocols. The first baseline operates
in the n = 3 f + 1 setting, tolerates up to f < n/3 Byzan-
tine faults, and achieves a good-case commit latency of three
rounds. This protocol is analogous to Jolteon∗ [31], a latency-
optimized variant of Jolteon [13]. The second baseline extends
the first to the n = 3 f + 2c + k + 1 setting, thereby tolerat-
ing up to f Byzantine and c crash faults. Unlike Hydrangea,
it does not implement a fast commit path and thus always
commits in three rounds under good-case conditions. We do
not include Alpenglow [16] in our comparisons, as its fault-
tolerance claims violate our lower bound and can therefore
lead to safety violations (see Section 7 for details).
Implementation. We build upon the open-source implemen-
tation of Jolteon [30] to implement all three protocols under
evaluation, modifying only the consensus logic while pre-
serving the existing network stack. The implementations are
written in Rust and use BLS multi-signatures for authentica-
tion. We refer to the protocol instantiated in the n = 3 f + 1
setting as Jolteon∗, and to its transformation for the Byzantine-
and-crash fault setting as ByzCrash.
Leader-based chain-based consensus protocols typically
rely on a separate data dissemination layer to achieve high
throughput [10]. In this layer, multiple parties send batches of
transactions to all parties, and collect a proof of availability
(PoA), which is then fed into the consensus protocol for order-
ing. In this work, we focus primarily on reducing consensus
latency. To this end, we removed the Narwhal mempool and
the simulated-client process from the Jolteon implementation.
Instead, the leaders in each protocol generate parametrically
sized payloads representing the PoA during block creation.
Each payload item is 190 bytes, which is sufficient to encode
a PoA when using BLS multi-signatures.
Experimental setup. We conducted our evaluations on the
Google Cloud Platform (GCP), deploying nodes evenly across
10 distinct regions: us-east1-b (South Carolina), us-west1-a
(Oregon), northamerica-northeast2-a (Toronto), europe-west3-
a (Frankfurt), europe-west9-a (Paris), europe-north2-a (Stock-
holm), europe-central2-a (Warsaw), me-west1-a (Israel), me-
central1-a (Qatar), and australia-southeast1-a (Sydney). We
used e2-standard-4 instances [22], each equipped with 4 vC-
PUs, 16 GB of memory, and up to 8 Gbps of network band-
width. All nodes ran Ubuntu 22.04.
In our setup, we vary the number of 190-byte PoAs in-
cluded in each block proposal across experimental runs and
measure the resulting latency and throughput. The block size
is capped at 800 PoA certificates (approximately 153 KB). In
all protocols under consideration, a block is proposed every
two rounds. Even when all parties propose transaction batches
in the data dissemination layer, only a few batches are typi-
cally proposed between consecutive proposals. Consequently,
a cap of 800 PoAs is sufficient to accommodate these batches,
even for network sizes up to 200 nodes. We therefore restrict
our evaluation to block sizes of at most 800 PoAs.
Each experimental run lasts for 180 seconds. Latency is
measured as the average elapsed time between block creation
and its commitment by 2 f + c + 1 parties, representing the
consensus latency. Note that f = ⌊ n−1
3 ⌋ and c = 0 for Jolteon∗.
Throughput is measured as the number of committed bytes
per second.
Performance comparison under failure-free case. We com-
pare the performance of all three protocols under fault-free
conditions for system sizes of n ∈ {10,50,100}. For Jolteon∗,
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
0 30 60 90 120 150 180
Block Size (KB)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350Latency (ms)
 Jolteon∗-10nodes
ByzCrash-10nodes
Hydrangea-10nodes
0 30 60 90 120 150 180
Block Size (KB)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Jolteon∗-50nodes
ByzCrash-50nodes
Hydrangea-50nodes
0 30 60 90 120 150 180
Block Size (KB)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Jolteon∗-100nodes
ByzCrash-100nodes
Hydrangea-100nodes
Figure 4: Latency vs. Block size at varying system sizes
0 30 60 90 120 150 180
Block Size (KB)
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800Throughput (KBps)
Jolteon∗-10nodes
ByzCrash-10nodes
Hydrangea-10nodes
0 30 60 90 120 150 180
Block Size (KB)
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Jolteon∗-50nodes
ByzCrash-50nodes
Hydrangea-50nodes
0 30 60 90 120 150 180
Block Size (KB)
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Jolteon∗-100nodes
ByzCrash-100nodes
Hydrangea-100nodes
Figure 5: Throughput vs. Block size at varying system sizes
we set f = ⌊(n − 1)/3⌋. For ByzCrash and Hydrangea, we
configure f ≈ 20% and c = 20%, with the remainder (if any)
allocated to k, except for the n = 10 case, where we set f = 1,
c = 2, and k = 2. As described earlier, we vary the proposed
block size and measure the resulting latency and throughput.
Figures 4 and 5 respectively present the latency and through-
put results across various block sizes up to 800 PoAs (i.e.,
153KB in size).
As shown in Figure 4, Jolteon ∗ exhibits the highest la-
tency among all protocols. This is expected, as it commits in
three rounds and each round requires responses from at least
67% of the parties. While ByzCrash also commits in three
rounds, its latency is significantly lower than that of Jolteon∗
because it only requires responses from 61% of the parties,
thereby involving fewer distant GCP regions in the critical
path. Hydrangea also achieves substantially lower latency
than Jolteon∗ due to its ability to commit in two rounds under
optimistic conditions. However, its latency improvement over
ByzCrash is more modest, since Hydrangea requires vote
messages from 90% of the parties for a two-round commit,
which often necessitates waiting for messages from distant
GCP regions. When inter-region latencies are more uniform,
the performance gain over ByzCrash is expected to be more
pronounced.
As shown in Figure 5, Jolteon∗ delivers the lowest through-
put. This stems from its requirement to collect vote messages
from 67% of the parties before proposing the next block, re-
ducing proposal frequency. Its higher commit latency further
decreases the number of committed blocks per second. By
contrast, ByzCrash and Hydrangea require only 61% of vote
messages before proposing a new block, enabling more fre-
quent proposals. Combined with their lower commit latencies,
both achieve substantially higher throughput than Jolteon∗.
Overall, the results highlight that while Hydrangea and
ByzCrash benefit from reduced quorum sizes compared to
Jolteon∗, Hydrangea additionally offers the advantage of an
optimistic two-round commit, yielding the lowest latency in
favorable conditions without compromising throughput.
Performance comparison under failures. We further evalu-
ate the performance of all three protocols with n = 50 under a
fault scenario involving9 Byzantine failures, each located in a
different GCP region. These faulty parties withhold theirvote
messages, thereby preventing any optimistic commit from
occurring.
As shown in Figure 6, both throughput and latency degrade
for all protocols compared to the fault-free setting, as they
must now wait for vote messages from a greater number of
GCP regions. Under this failure scenario, the performance
of Hydrangea and ByzCrash is identical, since the absence
of optimistic commits reduces both protocols to the same
three-round behavior. As before, Jolteon∗ exhibits the worst
performance due to its requirement of collecting 67% of vote
and commit messages before proceeding.
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
0 30 60 90 120 150
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400Latency (ms)
 Jolteon∗
ByzCrash
Hydrangea
0 30 60 90 120 150 180
Block Size (KB)
100
200
300
400
500
600
700Throughput (KBps)
Jolteon*
ByzCrash
Hydrangea
Figure 6: Performance comparison at n = 50 under Byzantine
failures.
7 Closely Related Work
Partially synchronous protocols are can tolerate up to f < n/3
Byzantine faults [12], with several protocols [6, 7, 11, 26]
achieving this resilience while committing within three
rounds from proposal to finality. Such protocols can be gener-
alized to the n ≥ 3 f +2c +1 setting, where f and c denote the
tolerated Byzantine and crash faults, respectively. However,
this entire class of protocols [9] remains bound by a three-
round latency even under favorable conditions. In contrast,
our protocol fundamentally breaks this barrier, achieving two
round commit under optimistic conditions while preserving
strong fault resilience.
A second line of work under partial synchrony, initiated by
FaB [21], introduces optimistic fast path to commit: when the
number of faulty parties is below a threshold, these protocols
can commit in two rounds [1,14,15,17,21,27]. State-of-the-art
protocols in this category operate withn = 3 f +2p+1, where
f denotes the number of tolerated Byzantine faults. They
guarantee a worst-case latency of three rounds, but achieve
two-round commits when at most p ≤ f parties are faulty.
Our protocol extends this line of work by additionally toler-
ating crash faults without sacrificing optimistic two-round
commitment. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
protocol that unifies the resilience guarantees of the classi-
cal three-round protocols (under Byzantine and crash fault
model) and the optimistic-commit protocols, while strictly
generalizing their fault models.
We note that while Alpenglow [16] claims to tolerate
< 20% Byzantine faults and < 20% crash faults simultane-
ously, committing optimistically with up to 20% total faults,
this guarantee does not hold under partial synchrony and in
fact contradicts our lower bound. This limitation is explic-
itly acknowledged in their work [16, Section 2.11, Example
44]. More precisely, their protocol supports a fast path with
up to 20% Byzantine faults, or alternatively tolerates up to
40% crash faults but no Byzantine faults [16, Section 1.4]. In
contrast, our protocol achieves full resilience to f Byzantine
and c crash faults under partial synchrony, while additionally
supporting optimistic two-round commits whenever at most
⌊ c+k
2 ⌋ parties are faulty.
Optimistic fast path in other consensus protocols. We also
compare against consensus protocols that incorporate an opti-
mistic fast path. In the synchronous setting, Thunderella [23]
and OptSync [5,28] achieve two-round commits when at least
⌊ 3n
4 ⌋ + 1 parties behave honestly. In the asynchronous setting,
Kursawe [18] proposed an optimistic Byzantine agreement
protocol tolerating f < n/3 faults, whose fast path, however,
requires all n parties to be honest—thereby tolerating no fail-
ures in the optimistic case. More recently, Shrestha et al. [29]
introduced an optimistic reliable broadcast protocol that can
terminate in two rounds when the broadcaster and at least
⌈ n+2 f −2
2 ⌉ of the non-broadcaster parties are honest.
8 Conclusion
We presented Hydrangea, a partially synchronous BFT con-
sensus protocol that reconciles the trade-off between low
latency and strong fault resilience. For a system of n =
3 f + 2c + k + 1 parties, Hydrangea achieves an optimistic
two-round commit when up to p = ⌊ c+k
2 ⌋ parties are faulty,
and guarantees three-round commits under the full f Byzan-
tine and c crash fault budget. We further proved a matching
lower bound, establishing the (near-)optimality of our result.
9 Acknowledgment
We thank Victor Shoup for insightful discussions and for
identifying a subtle liveness issue in an earlier version of this
paper. We also thank Ittai Abraham, Yuval Efron, Ling Ren,
Giulia Scaffino and David Yang for valuable feedback and
helpful discussions.
References
[1] Ittai Abraham, Guy Gueta, Dahlia Malkhi, and Jean-
Philippe Martin. Revisiting fast practical byzantine fault
tolerance: Thelma, velma, and zelma. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1801.10022, 2018.
[2] Ittai Abraham, Dahlia Malkhi, Kartik Nayak, Ling Ren,
and Maofan Yin. Sync hotstuff: Simple and practical
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
synchronous state machine replication. In IEEE S&P,
pages 106–118. IEEE, 2020.
[3] Ittai Abraham, Kartik Nayak, Ling Ren, and Zhuolun
Xiang. Good-case latency of byzantine broadcast: A
complete categorization. In Proceedings of the 2021
ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Comput-
ing, pages 331–341, 2021.
[4] Kushal Babel, Andrey Chursin, George Danezis, Anas-
tasios Kichidis, Lefteris Kokoris-Kogias, Arun Koshy,
Alberto Sonnino, and Mingwei Tian. Mysticeti: Reach-
ing the latency limits with uncertified dags. In Network
and Distributed Systems Security Symposium (NDSS),
2025.
[5] Adithya Bhat, Nibesh Shrestha, Aniket Kate, and Kartik
Nayak. Optrand: Optimistically responsive reconfig-
urable distributed randomness. In Network and Dis-
tributed System Security Symposium (NDSS), 2023.
[6] Ethan Buchman, Jae Kwon, and Zarko Milosevic.
The latest gossip on bft consensus. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1807.04938, 2018.
[7] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov. Practical Byzantine
fault tolerance. In OSDI, volume 99, pages 173–186,
1999.
[8] Benjamin Y Chan and Rafael Pass. Simplex consen-
sus: A simple and fast consensus protocol. In Theory
of Cryptography Conference, pages 452–479. Springer,
2023.
[9] Allen Clement, Manos Kapritsos, Sangmin Lee, Yang
Wang, Lorenzo Alvisi, Mike Dahlin, and Taylor Riche.
Upright cluster services. In Proceedings of the ACM
SIGOPS 22nd symposium on Operating systems princi-
ples, pages 277–290, 2009.
[10] George Danezis, Lefteris Kokoris-Kogias, Alberto Son-
nino, and Alexander Spiegelman. Narwhal and tusk:
a dag-based mempool and efficient bft consensus. In
Proceedings of the Seventeenth European Conference
on Computer Systems, pages 34–50, 2022.
[11] Isaac Doidge, Raghavendra Ramesh, Nibesh Shrestha,
and Joshua Tobkin. Moonshot: Optimizing block period
and commit latency in chain-based rotating leader bft. In
2024 54th Annual IEEE/IFIP International Conference
on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN) , pages
470–482. IEEE, 2024.
[12] Cynthia Dwork, Nancy Lynch, and Larry Stockmeyer.
Consensus in the presence of partial synchrony. Journal
of the ACM (JACM), 35(2):288–323, 1988.
[13] Rati Gelashvili, Lefteris Kokoris-Kogias, Alberto Son-
nino, Alexander Spiegelman, and Zhuolun Xiang.
Jolteon and ditto: Network-adaptive efficient consensus
with asynchronous fallback. In International confer-
ence on financial cryptography and data security, pages
296–315. Springer, 2022.
[14] Rachid Guerraoui, Nikola Kneževi´c, Vivien Quéma, and
Marko Vukoli´c. The next 700 bft protocols. In Pro-
ceedings of the 5th European conference on Computer
systems, pages 363–376, 2010.
[15] Guy Golan Gueta, Ittai Abraham, Shelly Grossman,
Dahlia Malkhi, Benny Pinkas, Michael Reiter, Dragos-
Adrian Seredinschi, Orr Tamir, and Alin Tomescu. Sbft:
A scalable and decentralized trust infrastructure. In2019
49th Annual IEEE/IFIP international conference on de-
pendable systems and networks (DSN), pages 568–580.
IEEE, 2019.
[16] Quentin Kniep, Jakub Sliwinski, and Roger
Wattenhofer. Solana alpenglow consen-
sus. https://drive.google.com/file/d/
1Rlr3PdHsBmPahOInP6-Pl0bMzdayltdV.
[17] Ramakrishna Kotla, Lorenzo Alvisi, Mike Dahlin, Allen
Clement, and Edmund Wong. Zyzzyva. ACM Transac-
tions on Computer Systems, 27(4):1–39, 2009.
[18] Klaus Kursawe. Optimistic byzantine agreement. In
21st IEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems,
2002. Proceedings., pages 262–267. IEEE, 2002.
[19] Petr Kuznetsov, Andrei Tonkikh, and Yan X Zhang. Re-
visiting optimal resilience of fast byzantine consensus.
In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Symposium on Princi-
ples of Distributed Computing, pages 343–353, 2021.
[20] Leslie Lamport, Robert Shostak, and Marshall Pease.
The byzantine generals problem. ACM Transactions on
Programming Languages and Systems, 4(3):382–401,
1982.
[21] J-P Martin and Lorenzo Alvisi. Fast byzantine con-
sensus. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure
Computing, 3(3):202–215, 2006.
[22] [n.d.]. Google cloud platform - general-purpose ma-
chine family for compute engine. Online; accessed
06-April-2025.
[23] Rafael Pass and Elaine Shi. Thunderella: Blockchains
with optimistic instant confirmation. In Advances in
Cryptology–EUROCRYPT 2018: 37th Annual Inter-
national Conference on the Theory and Applications
of Cryptographic Techniques, Tel Aviv, Israel, April
29-May 3, 2018 Proceedings, Part II 37 , pages 3–33.
Springer, 2018.
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
[24] M. Pease, R. Shostak, and L. Lamport. Reaching agree-
ment in the presence of faults. J. ACM, 27(2):228–234,
April 1980.
[25] Fred B Schneider. Implementing fault-tolerant services
using the state machine approach: A tutorial. ACM
Computing Surveys (CSUR), 22(4):299–319, 1990.
[26] Victor Shoup. Sing a song of simplex. In 38th Inter-
national Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC
2024), pages 37–1. Schloss Dagstuhl–Leibniz-Zentrum
für Informatik, 2024.
[27] Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann V onlanthen.
Kudzu: Fast and simple high-throughput bft. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.08771, 2025.
[28] Nibesh Shrestha, Ittai Abraham, Ling Ren, and Kartik
Nayak. On the optimality of optimistic responsiveness.
In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security, pages 839–
857, 2020.
[29] Nibesh Shrestha, Qianyu Yu, Aniket Kate, Giuliano
Losa, Kartik Nayak, and Xuechao Wang. Optimistic,
signature-free reliable broadcast and its applications.
In Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference
on Computer and Communications Security, 2025 (To
appear).
[30] Alberto Soninno. Jolteon github repository. https://
github.com/asonnino/hotstuff. [Online; accessed
30-July-2025].
[31] Satya Vusirikala, Daniel Xiang, and Zekun Li. Aip-
89 consensus latency reduction using order votes.
https://github.com/aptos-foundation/AIPs/
blob/main/aips/aip-89.md.
[32] Maofan Yin, Dahlia Malkhi, Michael K Reiter,
Guy Golan Gueta, and Ittai Abraham. Hotstuff: Bft
consensus with linearity and responsiveness. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2019 ACM symposium on principles of
distributed computing, pages 347–356, 2019.
17