
--- PAGE 1 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT
VICTOR SHOUP,Offchain Labs
JAKUB SLIWINSKI,Anza
YANN VONLANTHEN,ETH Zurich
We presentKudzu, a high-throughput atomic broadcast protocol with an integrated fast path. Our contribution
is based on the combination of two lines of work. Firstly, our protocol achieves finality in just two rounds
of communication if all but 𝑝 out of 𝑛= 3𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1participating replicas behave correctly, where 𝑓 is the
number of Byzantine faults that are tolerated. Due to the seamless integration of the fast path, even in the
presence of more than 𝑝 faults, our protocol maintains state-of-the-art characteristics. Secondly, our protocol
utilizes the bandwidth of participating replicas in a balanced way, alleviating the bottleneck at the leader,
and thus enabling high throughput. This is achieved by disseminating blocks using erasure codes. Despite
combining a novel set of advantages,Kudzuis remarkably simple: intricacies such as “progress certificates”,
complex view changes, and speculative execution are avoided.
1 Introduction
Recent years have seen a remarkable surge in popularity and development of resilient distributed
systems. The area of blockchain has become a hotbed of research, where systems akin to decentral-
ized world-computers [5, 11, 38] compete to introduce ever-improving protocols. At the heart of
any such system is aatomic broadcastprotocol [ 12], which allows all replicas in the network to
agree on a stream of transactions.
The crucial requirement that these protocols must satisfy isByzantine fault tolerance (BFT)[ 29],
which is the ability of a system composed of𝑛 different replicas to continue to function even if some
of the replicas fail in arbitrary (potentially adversarial) ways. Moreover, the network connecting the
replicas can be unreliable, or even controlled by an attacker. These harsh conditions meant that early
global decentralized systems suffered severe disadvantages compared to centralized counterparts,
hindering adoption. Despite the challenging setting, research has continued to improve once
infamously slow decentralized protocols, and decentralized systems are closing the performance
gap.
One key dimension of atomic broadcast performance is thefinalization latencyof new transactions.
Historically, the protocols with the best finalization latency are protocols, such as PBFT [14], where
a designated leader proposes a block of transactions, and which work in the partially synchronous
communication model [19]. In this model liveness is only guaranteed during periods of time where
the network is well behaved, but correctness (i.e., safety) is guaranteed unconditionally. For such
protocols, it is natural to measure finalization latency as the amount of time that may elapse
between when the leader proposes a block and when all other replicas finalize that block. In
measuring finalization latency, we assume the leader is honest and the network is well behaved.
Such protocols assume 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 1, where 𝑓 is a bound on the number of corrupt replicas, and
achieve finalization latency as low as3 𝛿, where 𝛿 is the longest actual message latency between
the replicas of the system. However, even2 𝛿 finalization latency is possible in situations where
no more than 𝑝 replicas fail and 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1for 𝑝≥ 0(or even 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 2𝑝− 1for 𝑝≥ 1).
Protocols achieving2 𝛿 finalization latency in these circumstances employ a specialfast path. This
type of protocol was first explored in [32]. Ideally, such protocols would still maintain a finalization
latency of3 𝛿, even if more than 𝑝 replicas fail, by running a traditional3 𝛿 slow path alongside
the fast path. However, not all fast path protocols enjoy this property (in particular, the protocol
Authors’ Contact Information: Victor Shoup, victor@shoup.net, Offchain Labs; Jakub Sliwinski, kobi@anza.xyz, Anza; Yann
Vonlanthen, yvonlanthen@ethz.ch, ETH Zurich.
arXiv:2505.08771v2  [cs.DC]  29 Sep 2025

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen
in [32] does not). Moreover, fast path protocols typically suffer from added complexity, such as
complex view-change logic, “progress certificate” messages, or speculative execution logic. This
added complexity has led to a history of errors (indeed, as pointed out in [1], the protocol in [32]
has a liveness bug).
Another crucial dimension of atomic broadcast performance is itsthroughput, that is, the number
of transactions that the protocol can process over time given the fixed bandwidth available at
every replica. Unfortunatlely, as has been observed and reported in several works [ 16, 33, 36],
leader-based protocols often suffer from a severe “bandwidth bottleneck” at the leader. However,
this leader bottleneck can be easily eliminated while still maintaining the leader-based structure
and all of its practical advantages [34]. This is done by using erasure codes to ensure that the leader
can disseminate large blocks withlowandwell-balancedcommunication complexity.
Another desirable feature of leader-based protocols is lightweight view-change logic that supp-
ports frequent leader rotation. In older protocols, such as PBFT, a leader is generally kept in place
for an extended period of time, and a complex and somewhat inefficient view-change subprotocol
is used to switch to a new leader if the current leader is suspected of being faulty by other replicas.
A newer breed of protocols, typified by HotStuff [40], employ extremely lightweight view-change
logic that supports frequent leader rotation. Frequently rotating leaders can be beneficial for mul-
tiple reasons, for instance, to increase fairness when block production comes with rewards (e.g.,
maximal extractable value), or to increase censorship resistance.
In this work, our aim is to unite and improve the state-of-the-art in these key dimensions, and to
do so while keeping the protocol as simple as possible.
Our contribution.We presentKudzu 1: a fast and high-throughput atomic broadcast protocol
that is remarkably simple compared to its predecessors.Kudzuis the first BFT protocol that
combines an optimistic2 𝛿 latency fast path integrated into a3 𝛿 latency slow path, with high-
throughput data dispersal, as well as lightweight view change logic that supports frequent leader
rotation. We provide a detailed description of the protocol and rigorously prove its security.
(1) Fast path.In a network of 𝑛= 3𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1replicas,Kudzuachieves finalization latency of
2𝛿if at most𝑝replicas are corrupt.
(2) Simultaneous slow path.If more than 𝑝 replicas fail,Kudzumaintains the best possible
finalization latency of3𝛿by running a slow path alongside the fast path.
(3)High throughput.High throughput is achieved byKudzuusing erasure codes to ensure
that the leader can disseminate large blocks with low and well-balanced communication
complexity.
(4) Lightweight view change.Kudzuemploys an extremely simple and efficient view change
logic that allows for frequent leader rotation.
Kudzuis the first atomic broadcast protocol to satisfy all of these properties simultaneously. It also
enjoys other properties, such as optimistic responsiveness (the protocol proceeds as fast as the
network will allow, with no artificially introduced delays), and a block time (the delay between
successive honest leaders proposing a block) of just2𝛿.
Technical Intuition.Inspired by DispersedSimplex [34],Kudzuintroduces the minimal changes
to that protocol required to incorporate a fast path. A designated leader inKudzudistributes the
block data by sending erasure coded fragments to all other replicas. In turn, these replicas then
broadcast the fragments themselves, together with a first-round vote on the cryptographic hash
identifying the block. The voting logic carefully incorporates a rule that makes sure that a block can
already be finalized given 𝑛−𝑝 first-round votes. As a result, replicas can already reassemble the
block and finalize it in2 𝛿 latency in the good case where the network is well behaved, the leader is
1Kudzu is an insidious, fast-growing vine, also known as Mile-a-Minute.

--- PAGE 3 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT 3
honest, and at most 𝑝 replicas are corrupt. Another vote-counting rule is used to finalize the block
on a slower,3 𝛿-latency path, if more than 𝑝 replicas are corrupt. To avoid getting stuck altogether,
a replica may also vote for a couple of other blocks than the one it initially received from the leader,
including a special “timeout” block. The main innovation of our paper is the logic for determining
when these “extra” votes are cast — this logic is deceptively simple, but carefully maintains a very
delicate balance between liveness and safety. With this innovation, we avoid intricacies such as
“progress certificates”, complex view changes, and speculative execution as found in other protocols
(such as Banyan [37], SBFT [22], Kuznetsov et al. [28], and HotStuff-1 [23]).
2 Related Work
2.1 Fast Path Protocols
A long line of work proposes consensus protocols with a fast path, typically called “fast”, “early-
stopping” or “one-step” consensus [9, 18, 21, 27, 32, 35]. FaB Paxos [32] introduces a parametrized
model with3 𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1replicas, where 𝑝≥ 0. The parameter 𝑝 describes the number of replicas
that are not needed for the fast path. These protocols can terminate optimally fast in theory (2𝛿,
or 2 network delays) under optimistic conditions. The papers [2, 18, 28] point out that the lower
bound of3 𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1actually only applies to a restricted type of protocol. The papers present
single-shot consensus protocols that use only3 𝑓+ 2𝑝∗ − 1replicas, with 𝑝∗ ≥ 1, and prove the
corresponding lower bound.
2.2 Simultaneous Slow Path Protocols
Interestingly, in practice, these fast path protocols mightincreasethe finalization latency, as the
fast path requires a round of voting between 𝑛−𝑝 replicas, which could be slower than two rounds
of voting between 𝑛−𝑓−𝑝 replicas that are concentrated in a geographic area. Banyan [ 37]
performs the fast path in parallel with the3 𝛿 mechanism, which is optimally fast if more than
𝑝 replicas are faulty or exhibit higher network latency. However, Banyan can exhibitunbounded
message complexity when there is a corrupt leader.Kudzuaddresses this drawback, shares the
same optimistic latency properties, improves throughput through balanced dispersal, benefits from
a simpler design, and better properties during leader rotation (see section 2.4).
2.3 High-Throughput Protocols
Leader-based protocols such as PBFT [14], HotStuff [40] and Tendermint [10] suffer from a band-
width bottleneck, as in these protocols the leader is responsible for disseminating transactions to
all replicas. As mentioned above, this bottleneck has been well known for quite a while [16, 33, 36].
One way to alleviate this bottleneck is to move away from leader-based protocols to a more sym-
metric, leaderless protocol design where all replicas disseminate transactions. Such an approach
was already taken in [16, 24, 33, 36]. These protocols typically have worse latency than leader-based
protocols, and moreover, since many replicas may end up broadcasting the same transactions, the
supposed improvement in throughput can end up being illusory (note that [36] actually tackles
this duplication problem head on).
Kudzufollows a different approach to address the leader bottleneck, which makes use of erasure
coding [20, 38]. By splitting blocks into smaller, erasure-coded shares, the leader can transmit less
data, leading to a balanced utilization of resources.
This line of work shines by providing high throughput and low latency [30, 34]. Alpenglow [25]
is a recent proof-of-stake protocol being deployed for the Solana blockchain that showcases the
appeal of this line of work in practice. Alpenglow andKudzuare intimately related in their voting
logic.

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen
2.4 View Changes
Some atomic broadcast protocols are notorious for having complex view changes, especially in the
presence of a fast path [4]. In the case of Zzyzzva [26] and UpRight [15], safety errors were later
pointed out [1]. Arguably SBFT [22] was the first to correct these mistakes. SBFT [22] avoids the
all-to-all broadcast that occurs inKudzu, but this results in higher finalization latency. Moreover,
SBFT does not address the above-mentioned leader bottleneck.
3 Model and Preliminaries
We consider a network of𝑛 replicas 𝑃1, . . . , 𝑃𝑛 called replicas. Up to 𝑓 replicas can be Byzantine, i.e.,
deviate from the protocol in arbitrary ways, such as collude to attack the protocol. The remaining
replicas follow the protocol and are referred to as honest. We aim to provide better latency if only
up to 𝑝 replicas do not cooperate. In other words, 𝑛−𝑝 honest replicas including the leader are
enough for the fast path to be effective.
To prove the security ofKudzuwe assume
𝑛≥3𝑓+2𝑝+1,(1)
where 𝑓≥ 1and 𝑝≥ 0. Moreover, to prove concrete bounds on message, communication, and
storage complexity, we assume
𝑛<3(𝑓+𝑝+1).(2)
Assumption (2) is not a real restriction. Indeed, if 𝑛≥ 3(𝑓+𝑝+ 1)= 3𝑓+ 3𝑝+ 3, then we can
alwaysincrease 𝑝 appropriately, leaving 𝑛 and 𝑓 alone, so that both (1) and (2) are satisfied. This
only increases the overall performance of the protocol.
3.1 Network Assumptions
We will not generally assume network synchrony. However, we say the network is𝛿-synchronous
at time 𝑇 if every message sent from an honest replica 𝑃 at or before time 𝑇 to an honest replica
𝑄 is received by 𝑄 before time 𝑇+𝛿 . We also say the the network is 𝛿-synchronous over an
interval[𝑎, 𝑏+𝛿]if it is𝛿-synchronous at time𝑇for all𝑇∈ [𝑎, 𝑏].
While our protocols always guaranteesafety, even in periods of asynchrony,livenesswill only
be guaranteed in periods of 𝛿-synchrony, for appropriately bounded 𝛿 (and this synchrony bound
may be explicitly used by the protocol). Thus, we are essentially working in thepartial synchrony
model of [19]. However, instead of assuming a single point in time (GST) after which the network is
assumed to be synchronous, we take a somewhat more general point of view that models a network
that may alternate between periods of asychrony and synchrony.
Replicas have local clocks that can measure the passage of local time. We do not assume that
clocks are synchronized in any way. However, we do assume that there is noclock skew, that is, all
clocks tick at the same rate (but we could also just assume the skew is bounded and incorporate
that bound into the protocol’s synchrony bound).
3.2 Problem Statement
The purpose of state machine replication is to totally order blocks containing transactions, so that
all replicas output transactions in the same order. Our protocol orders blocks by associating them
with natural numbered slots. Some leader replica is assigned to every slot. For every slot, either
some block produced by the leader might be finalized, or the protocol can yield an empty block.
The guarantees of our protocol can be stated as follows:
• Safety: If some honest replica finalizes block𝐵 in slot 𝑣, and another honest replica finalizes
block𝐵 ′ in slot𝑣, then𝐵=𝐵 ′.

--- PAGE 5 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT 5
• Liveness: If the network is in a period of synchrony, each honest replica continues to
finalize blocks for slots𝑣=1,2, . . .
In addition to liveness and safety, we support a fast path:
• Fast Termination: If the network is in a period of synchrony, 𝑛−𝑝 replicas behave
momentarily honestly, and an honest leader proposes a block 𝐵 at time 𝑡, then every honest
replica finalizes𝐵at time𝑡+2𝛿.
3.3 Cryptographic Assumptions
3.3.1 Signatures and certificates.We make standard cryptographic assumptions of secure digital
signatures and collision-resistant hash functions. We assume all replicas know the public keys of
other replicas.
We use a 𝑘-out-of-𝑛 threshold signature scheme. We refer to asignature shareand asignature
certificate: signature shares from 𝑘 replicas on a given message may be combined to form a sig-
nature certificate on that message. This can be implemented in various ways, e.g., based on BLS
signatures [6–8]. The security property for such a threshold signature scheme may be stated as
follows.
Quorum Size Property: It is infeasible to produce a signature certificate on a message 𝑚,
unless 𝑘−𝑓 ′ honest replicas have issued signature shares on𝑚, where 𝑓 ′ ≤𝑓 is the number
of corrupt replicas.
For ease of exposition and analysis, we assumestatic corruptions, so the adversary must choose
some number 𝑓 ′ ≤𝑓 replicas to corrupt at the very beginning of the protocol execution, and then
does not corrupt any replicas thereafter. That said, we believe all of our the protocols are secure
againstadaptive corrupts, provided the threshold signature scheme is as well.
As we will see, we will need a one 𝑘-out-of-𝑛 threshold signature scheme with 𝑘=𝑛−𝑓−𝑝 ,
and another with𝑘=𝑛−𝑝.
3.3.2 Information Dispersal.We make use of well-known techniques forasynchronous verifiable
information dispersal (A VID)involving erasure codes and Merkle trees [13].
Erasure codes.For integer parameters 𝑘≥𝑑≥ 1, a (𝑘, 𝑑)-erasure codeencodes a bit string 𝑀 as a
vector of 𝑘 fragments, 𝑓1, . . . , 𝑓𝑘, in such a way that any 𝑑 such fragments may be used to efficiently
reconstruct 𝑀. Note that for variable-length 𝑀, the reconstruction algorithm also takes as input the
length 𝛽 of 𝑀. The reconstruction algorithm may fail (for example, a formatting error)—if it fails it
returns ⊥, while if it succeeds it returns a message that when re-encoded will yield 𝑘 fragments
that agree with the original subset of 𝑑 fragments. We assume that all fragments have the same
size, which is determined as a function of𝑘,𝑑, and𝛽.
Using a Reed-Solomon code, which is based on polynomial interpolation, we can realize a
(𝑘, 𝑑)-erasure code so that if|𝑀|=𝛽, then each fragment has size≈𝛽/𝑑.
In our protocol, the payload of a block will be encoded using an (𝑛, 𝑓+𝑝+ 1)-erasure code. Such
an erasure code encodes a payload 𝑀 as a vector of fragments 𝑓1, . . . , 𝑓𝑛, any 𝑓+𝑝+ 1of which
can be used to reconstruct 𝑀. This leads to a data expansion rate of at most roughly3; that is,Í
𝑖 |𝑓𝑖 | ≈𝑛/(𝑓+𝑝+1) · |𝑀|<3|𝑀|, where last inequality follows from assumption (2).
Merkle trees.Recall that a Merkle tree allows one replica 𝑃 to commit to a vector of values
(𝑣 1, . . . , 𝑣𝑘 ) using a collision-resistant hash function by building a (full) binary tree whose leaves
are the hashes of 𝑣1, . . . , 𝑣𝑘, and where each internal node of the tree is the hash of its two children.
The root 𝑟 of the tree is the commitment. Replica 𝑃 may “open” the commitment at a position
𝑖∈ [𝑘] by revealing 𝑣𝑖 along with a “validation path”𝜋𝑖, which consists of the siblings of all nodes

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen
along the path in the tree from the hash of 𝑣𝑖 to the root 𝑟. We call 𝜋𝑖 avalidation path from the root
under 𝑟 to the value 𝑣𝑖 at position 𝑖. Such a validation path is checked by recomputing the nodes
along the corresponding path in the tree, and verifying that the recomputed root is equal to the
given commitment 𝑟. The collision resistance of the hash function ensures that 𝑃 cannot open the
commitment to two different values at a given position.
Encoding and decoding.For a given payload 𝑀 of length 𝛽, we will encode 𝑀 as a vector of
fragments (𝑓 1, . . . , 𝑓𝑛) using an (𝑛, 𝑓+𝑝+ 1)-erasure code, and then form a Merkle tree with root 𝑟
whose leaves are the hashes of𝑓 1, . . . , 𝑓𝑛. We define thetag𝜏 :=(𝛽, 𝑟).
For a tag𝜏=(𝛽, 𝑟), we shall call(𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )acertified fragment for𝜏at position𝑖if
•𝑓 𝑖 has the correct length of a fragment for a message of length𝛽, and
•𝜋 𝑖 is a correct validation path from the root under𝑟to the fragment𝑓 𝑖 at position𝑖.
The function Encode takes as input a payload 𝑀. It builds a Merkle tree for 𝑀 as above with root
𝑟 (encoding 𝑀 as a vector of fragments, and then building the Merkle tree whose leaves are the
hashes of all of these fragments). It returns
  𝜏,{(𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )}𝑖∈ [𝑛]
,
where 𝜏 is the tag (𝛽, 𝑟) , 𝛽 is the length of𝑀, and each (𝑓𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 ) is a certified fragment for𝜏 at position
𝑖.
The functionDecodetakes as input
  𝜏,{(𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )}𝑖∈ I
,
where 𝜏=(𝛽, 𝑟) is a tag, I is a subset of [𝑛] of size 𝑓+𝑝+ 1, and each (𝑓𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 ) is a certified fragment
for 𝜏 at position 𝑖. It first reconstructs a message 𝑀 ′ from the fragments {𝑓𝑖 }𝑖∈ I , using the size
parameter 𝛽. If 𝑀 ′ =⊥ , it returns ⊥. Otherwise, it encodes 𝑀 ′ as a vector of fragments (𝑓 ′
1 , . . . , 𝑓 ′
𝑛 )
and Merkle tree with root𝑟 ′ from(𝑓 ′
1 , . . . , 𝑓 ′
𝑛 ). If𝑟 ′ ≠𝑟, it returns⊥. Otherwise, it returns𝑀 ′.
Under collision resistance for the hash function used for the Merkle trees, any 𝑓+𝑝+ 1certified
fragments for given tag 𝜏 will decode to the same payload — moreover, if 𝜏 is the output of the
encoding function, these fragments will decode to 𝑀 (and therefore, if the decoding function
outputs ⊥, we can be sure that 𝜏 was maliciously constructed). This observation is the basis for
the protocols in [17, 31, 39]. Moreover, with this approach, we do not need to use anything like
an “erasure code proof system” (as in [3]), which would add significant computational complexity
(and in particular, the erasure coding would have to be done using parameters compatible with the
proof system, which would likely lead to much less efficient encoding and decoding algorithms).
4KudzuProtocol
Kudzuiterates through slots, where in each slot there is a designated leader who proposes a
new block, which is chained to a parent block. Leaders may be rotated in each slot, either in a
round-robin fashion or using some pseudo-random sequence. The slot leader disseminates large
blocks in a way that keeps the overall communication complexity low and avoids a bandwidth
bottleneck at the leader. The communication is balanced, meaning that each replica, including the
leader, transmits roughly the same amount of data over the network.
We describe our protocol as a few simple subprotocols that run concurrently with each other:
•Vote and Certificate Pool: data structure managing the votes and certificates;
•Complete Block Tree: data structure storing the reconstructed blocks;
• Main Loop: loop issuing votes that makes sure some blocks becomenotarizedandfinalized.
Notarized blocks can be reconstructed by all replicas and are added to the Complete Block
Tree. Finalized blocks are ordered and output by the protocol.

--- PAGE 7 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT 7
4.1 Protocol Data Objects
Definition 4.1 (block).Ablock𝐵is of the formBlock(𝑣, 𝜏, ℎ 𝑝 ), where
(1)𝑣∈ { 1, 2, . . .} is the slot number associated with the block (and we say 𝐵 is a block for slot 𝑣),
(2)𝜏is the tag obtained by encoding𝐵’s payload𝑀,
(3)ℎ 𝑝 is the hash of 𝐵’s parent block (or ℎ𝑝 =⊥ by convention if 𝐵’s parent is a notional
“genesis” block).
We also call a certified fragment for the tag 𝜏 acertified fragment for 𝐵. The block 𝐵timeout
𝑣 =
Block(𝑣,⊥,⊥)is a specialtimeout block.
Definition 4.2 (votes and certificates).Anotarization vote from 𝑃𝑖 for block 𝐵 is an object of
the form NotarVote(𝐵, 𝜎𝑖, 𝑓𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 ), where 𝜎𝑖 is a valid signature share from 𝑃𝑖 on the object Notar(𝐵) ,
and(𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )is either a certified fragment for𝐵at position𝑖, or(𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )=(⊥,⊥)if𝐵=𝐵 timeout
𝑣 .
Anotarization certificate for 𝐵 is an object of the form NotarCert(𝐵, 𝜎) , where 𝜎 is a valid
(𝑛−𝑓−𝑝) -out-of-𝑛 signature certificate on the object Notar(𝐵) . The notarization vote on the
timeout block is also called the timeout vote, and the notarization certificate for the timeout block
is called the timeout certificate.
Afirst vote from 𝑃𝑖 on block 𝐵 is an object of the form FirstVote(𝜎′
𝑖 ,NotarVote(𝐵, 𝜎 𝑖, 𝑓𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )),
where 𝜎 ′
𝑖 is a valid signature share from 𝑃𝑖 on the object First(𝐵) , and NotarVote(𝐵, 𝜎𝑖, 𝑓𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 ) is a
notarization vote from𝑃 𝑖 on block𝐵.
Afast finalization certificate for 𝐵≠𝐵 timeout
𝑣 is an object of the form FirstCert(𝐵, 𝜎) , where
𝜎is a valid(𝑛−𝑝)-out-of-𝑛signature certificate on the objectFirst(𝐵).
Afinalization vote from 𝑃𝑖 on block 𝐵 is an object of the form FinalVote(𝐵, 𝜎𝑖 ), where 𝜎𝑖 is a
valid signature share from𝑃 𝑖 on the objectFinal(𝐵).
Afinalization certificate for 𝐵 is an object of the form FinalCert(𝐵, 𝜎) , where 𝜎 is a valid
(𝑛−𝑓−𝑝)-out-of-𝑛signature certificate on the objectFinal(𝐵).
4.2 Vote and Certificate Pool
Each replica maintains apoolwith votes and certificates. For every slot, the pool stores votes and
certificates associated with the slot.
As we will see, by design, for any one slot, a honest replica can send only 1 first vote, 1 timeout
vote, and 1 finalization vote. As we will also see later (in Section 5.3), for one slot a honest replica
can only send at most 3 (non-timeout) notarization votes. Any votes exceeding this bound can only
result from misbehavior and are not added to the pool. For example, if a replica receives more than
three notarization votes for a given slot from some replica 𝑃, the replica can ignore these votes
and conclude that 𝑃 is corrupt. In particular, only one first vote per replica can be observed by the
protocol loop in Protocol 1. When a first vote is added to the pool, also the contained notarization
vote is added to the pool.
Whenever a replica receives enough votes, and it does not already have a corresponding certificate,
it will generate the certificate, add it to the pool, and broadcast the certificate to all replicas. Similarly,
whenever a replica receives a certificate, and it does not already have a corresponding certificate, it
will add it to the pool, and broadcast the certificate to all replicas. For one slot it is impossible that
the pool would receive or create more than: 1 timeout certificate, 1 fast finalization certificate, 1
finalization certificate, and 5 notarization certificates. The first bound is immediate, since there
can be only one timeout certificate per slot. The second and third bounds follow from the safety
analysis below. The fourth bound follows from the analysis in Section 5.3.

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen
4.3 Complete Block Tree
Each replica also maintains acomplete block tree, which is a tree of blocks rooted at a notional
genesis block at slot 0. We will show that the number of blocks for a given slot is bounded by 5. A
block𝐵=Block(𝑣, 𝜏, ℎ 𝑝 )is added to the tree if each of the following holds:
•the certificate pool contains a notarization certificate for𝐵and𝐵≠𝐵 timeout
𝑣 ;
•ℎ 𝑝 =⊥or the complete block tree contains a parent block with the hashℎ 𝑝;
• the replica has received enough (i.e. 𝑓+𝑝+ 1) notarization votes to reconstruct the effective
payload𝑀of𝐵as
𝑀←Decode(𝜏,{(𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )}𝑖∈ I ),
where{(𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )}𝑖∈ I is the corresponding collection of certified fragments for𝜏;
•𝑀≠⊥ and satisfies some correctness predicate that may depend on the path of blocks (and
their payloads) from genesis to block𝐵.
A replica does not broadcast anything in addition to adding a block to the block tree.
4.4 Finalization
We say that a block 𝐵 for slot 𝑣 isexplicitly finalized by replica 𝑃 if the complete block tree of
𝑃 contains 𝐵 and the certificate pool of 𝑃 contains either a fast finalization certificate for 𝐵 or
finalization certificate for 𝐵. In this case, we say that all of the predecessors of block 𝐵 in the
complete block tree areimplicitly finalized by 𝑃. The payloads of finalized blocks may be then
transmitted in order to the execution layer of the protocol stack of a replicated state machine.
4.5 Generating Block Proposals
The logic for generating block proposal material 𝐵, (𝑓 1, 𝜋1), . . . ,(𝑓 𝑛, 𝜋𝑛) in slot 𝑣 in line 16 of
Protocol 1 is as follows:
• build a payload 𝑀 that validly extends the path in the complete block tree ending at a block
𝐵p with hashℎ 𝑝;
•compute
(𝜏,{(𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )}𝑖∈ [𝑛] ) ←Encode(𝑀);
•set𝐵 :=Block(𝑣, 𝜏, ℎ 𝑝 ).
4.6 Validating Block Proposals
To check if BlockProp(𝐵, 𝑓 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 ) is a valid block proposal in slot 𝑣 in line 18 of Protocol 1, replica 𝑃 𝑗
checks that the following conditions holds:
•the proposal is signed or otherwise authenticated by the leader,
•𝐵is of the formBlock(𝑣, 𝜏, ℎ 𝑝 ),
• (𝑓 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )is a certified fragment for𝜏at position𝑗,
•the complete block tree contains a block with the hashℎ 𝑝 in a slot𝑣 ′ <𝑣;
•the pool contains timeout certificates for slots𝑣 ′ +1, . . . , 𝑣−1;
These last two conditions might not hold at a given point in time, but may hold at a later point
in time, and so might need to be checked again when blocks or certificates are added.
4.7 Main Loop
The main protocol for 𝑃 𝑗 is described in Protocol 1. In the description, leader(𝑣) denotes the leader
for slot 𝑣 — as mentioned, leaders may be rotated in each slot, either in a round-robin fashion or
using some pseudo-random sequence.

--- PAGE 9 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT 9
As mentioned in Section 4.2, each replica only considers only one first vote that it receives from
any other replica. To make this explicit in the protocol, we use a map firstVote from replicas to
blocks to record these votes for the current slot. The protocol also uses simple helper functions on
this map.
•allVotes(firstVote): the total number of first votes for slot𝑣contained in the pool,
•maxVotes(firstVote) : the maximal number of first votes on some non-timeout block 𝐵 for
slot𝑣contained in the pool,
•manyVotes(firstVote) : returns the set of non-timeout blocks in slot 𝑣 on which the pool
contains at least𝑓+𝑝+1first votes.
For example, if the pool contains 1, 2, 3, 4 first votes on blocks 𝐵1, 𝐵2, 𝐵3, 𝐵timeout
𝑣 respectively (and
𝑓+𝑝+1=2), thenallVotes=10,maxVotes=3, andmanyVotes={𝐵 2, 𝐵3}.
The protocol also uses a subprotocolReconstructAndNotarize(𝑣, 𝐵), defined in Protocol 2.
Each replica 𝑃 𝑗 moves through slots 𝑣= 1, 2, . . . . In each slot, it will enter a loop in which it
waits for one of several conditions to trigger an action. These conditions are based on the objects
in its pool and its complete block tree, as well as local variables.
• Lines 9–11 present the logic for the replica successfully exiting the slot by finding a block
𝐵 for that slot in its complete block tree. In addition, if the replica did not broadcast a
notarization vote for any other block (including the timeout block) for that slot, it will also
broadcast a finalization block for𝐵.
•Lines 12–13 present the logic for the replica unsuccessfully exiting the slot by obtaining a
timeout certificate for that slot.
• Lines 14–17 present the logic for the replica proposing a block for that slot if it is the leader
for that slot. It generates the block proposal as in Section 4.5, extending the path in the
complete block tree ending at 𝐵p. Here, 𝐵p is either the genesis block or the block that it
found in its complete block tree the last time it successfully exited a slot (other choices of
𝐵p are possible).
• Lines 18–21 present the logic for the replica broadcasting a first vote for a non-timeout
block 𝐵. It will do so only if 𝐵 is a valid block proposed by the leader (as in Section 4.6) and
has not already first voted. Recall that a first vote for 𝐵 also includes a notarization vote for
𝐵.
• Lines 22–25 present the logic for the replica broadcasting a first vote for the timeout block
for this slot. It will do so only if a sufficient amount of time has passed since it entered the
slot and has not already first voted.
•Lines 26–27 present the logic for updating the mapfirstVotes. No other actions are taken.
• Lines 28–31 present the logic for the replica taking a “second look” at a block𝐵, if it has
received sufficiently many first votes for 𝐵. It will do so only if it has already first voted
(and has not already taken a second look at 𝐵). If it can reconstruct a valid payload for 𝐵,
it will broadcast a notarization vote for 𝐵 (if it has not already done so); otherwise, it will
broadcast a notarization vote for the timeout block.
• Lines 32–35 present the logic for the replica broadcasting a timeout vote under special
circumstances. It will do so only if it has already first voted and
allVotes(firstVote) −maxVotes(firstVote) ≥𝑓+𝑝+1.
We note that the quantity
allVotes(firstVote) −maxVotes(firstVote)
cannot decrease as we add entries to firstVote. That is because, when we add an entry, the
first term increases by 1 and the second either decreases by 1 or remains unchanged.

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen
Protocol 1Kudzumain loop for replica𝑃 𝑗
1:𝐵 p ←genesis⊲parent of the next block
2: for𝑣=1,2, . . .do
3: 𝑇start ←clock()⊲slot-local initialisation
4: done,proposed,firstVoted←false
5: notarized← {}⊲blocks already notarized
6: secondLook← {}⊲blocks already reconsidered
7: firstVote← {}⊲map𝑃 𝑖 ↦→𝐵for their first vote
8: while¬donewait until either
9: there exists a block𝐵for slot𝑣in the complete block tree⇒
10: 𝐵p ←𝐵;done←true
11: ifnotarized⊆ {𝐵}thenbroadcastFinalVote(𝐵, 𝜎 𝑗 )
12: the pool contains a timeout certificate for𝑣⇒
13: done←true
14: ¬proposed∧leader(𝑣)=𝑃 𝑗 ⇒
15: proposed←true
16: generate block proposal material𝐵,(𝑓 1, 𝜋1), . . . ,(𝑓 𝑛, 𝜋𝑛)extending block𝐵 p
17: forall𝑖∈ [𝑛]:sendBlockProp(𝐵, 𝑓 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )to𝑃 𝑖
18: ¬firstVoted∧received validBlockProp(𝐵, 𝑓 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )fromleader(𝑣) ⇒
19: firstVoted←true
20: broadcastFirstVote(𝜎 ′
𝑗,NotarVote(𝐵, 𝜎 𝑗, 𝑓 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 ))
21: notarized←notarized∪ {𝐵}
22: ¬firstVoted∧clock()>𝑇 start +Δ timeout ⇒
23: firstVoted←true
24: broadcastFirstVote(𝜎 ′
𝑗,NotarVote(𝐵 timeout
𝑣 , 𝜎𝑗,⊥,⊥))
25: notarized←notarized∪ {𝐵 timeout
𝑣 }
26: received validFirstVote(_,NotarVote(𝐵,_))from𝑃 𝑖 andfirstVote[𝑃 𝑖 ]=⊥ ⇒
27: firstVote[𝑃𝑖 ] ←𝐵
28: firstVoted∧ ∃𝐵∈manyVotes(firstVote) \secondLook
29: and𝐵’s parent is in the complete block tree⇒
30: secondLook←secondLook∪ {𝐵}
31: ReconstructAndNotarize(𝑣, 𝐵)
32: firstVoted∧ (allVotes(firstVote) −maxVotes(firstVote) ≥𝑓+𝑝+1)
33: and𝐵 timeout
𝑣 ∉notarized⇒
34: broadcastNotarVote(𝐵 timeout
𝑣 , 𝜎𝑗,⊥,⊥)
35: notarized←notarized∪ {𝐵 timeout
𝑣 }

--- PAGE 11 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT 11
Protocol 2ReconstructAndNotarize(𝑣, 𝐵)
1:reconstruct payload for𝐵
2: ifreconstruction succeeds∧payload validthen
3: if𝐵∉notarizedthen
4: broadcastNotarVote(𝐵, 𝜎 𝑗, 𝑓 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )
5: notarized←notarized∪ {𝐵}
6: else
7: if𝐵 timeout
𝑣 ∉notarizedthen
8: broadcastNotarVote(𝐵 timeout
𝑣 , 𝜎𝑗,⊥,⊥)
9: notarized←notarized∪ {𝐵 timeout
𝑣 }
5 Protocol Analysis
We start by proving some helpful properties.
Lemma 5.1 (V alidity Property).Suppose that a block 𝐵 for some slot 𝑣 is added to the complete
block tree of some replica. If the leader for slot𝑣is honest,𝐵must have been proposed by that leader.
Proof. By the Quorum Size Property (see Section 3.3.1) for notarization certificates, at least
𝑛− 2𝑓−𝑝 honest replicas must have broadcast notarization shares for 𝐵. Since we are assuming
𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1, it follows that 𝑛− 2𝑓−𝑝> 0, so some honest replica 𝑃 must have broadcast a
notarization share for 𝐵. This could happen either at line 20 or at line 31. In the first case, 𝐵 must
be the block that 𝑃 received as a proposal from the leader. In the second case, since 𝑃 received
𝑓+𝑝+1first votes for𝐵, one of these must be a first vote for𝐵from some honest replica𝑄, and
so𝐵must be the block that𝑄received as a proposal from the leader.□
Lemma 5.2 (Completeness Property for Certificates).If a certificate 𝑋 appears in the vote
and certificate pool (so 𝑋 is a notarization, finalization, or timeout certificate) then 𝑋 (or its equivalent)
will eventually appear in the corresponding pool of every other replica. Moreover, if 𝑋 appears in a
replica’s pool at a time 𝑇 at which the network is 𝛿-synchronous, it will appear in every replica’s pool
before time𝑇+𝛿.
Proof. This is clear, since a certificate appearing in the vote and certificate pool is broadcast
immediately. □
Lemma 5.3 (Completeness Property for Blocks).If a block 𝐵 appears in the complete block tree,
then 𝐵 will eventually appear in the corresponding tree of every other replica. Moreover, if 𝐵 appears
in a replica’s tree at a time 𝑇 at which the network is 𝛿-synchronous, it will appear in every replica’s
tree before time𝑇+𝛿.
Proof. We are relying on the Quorum Size Property (see Section 3.3.1) for notarization certifi-
cates: when a notarization certificate for a block𝐵 is added to the certificate pool, at least𝑛− 2𝑓−𝑝
honest replicas must have already broadcast notarization votes for 𝐵, which contain 𝐵 as well as
fragments sufficient to reconstruct𝐵’s payload, since𝑛−2𝑓−𝑝≥𝑓+𝑝+1.□
5.1 Safety
Lemma 5.4 (Fast Finalization Implication).Suppose a block 𝐵 is fast finalized by some honest
replica, then the number of honest replicas that first vote for anything other than𝐵is at most𝑝.
Proof. Let 𝑓 ′ ≤𝑓 be the actual number of corrupt replicas. If some honest replica fast finalizes
𝐵, then — by the Quorum Size Property (see Section 3.3.1) for fast finalization certificates — at least

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen
𝑛−𝑝−𝑓 ′ honest replicas first voted for 𝐵. So the number of honest replicas that first vote for
anything other than𝐵is at most(𝑛−𝑓 ′) − (𝑛−𝑝−𝑓 ′)=𝑝.□
Lemma 5.5 (Uniqeness of Fast Finalization Property).If an honest replica receives 𝑓+𝑝+ 1
first votes for a block 𝐵 in slot 𝑣, then no block different from 𝐵 can be fast finalized in slot 𝑣 by any
honest replica.
Proof. Suppose towards contradiction that and some replica 𝑃 receives 𝑓+𝑝+ 1first votes for
a block 𝐵 but a block 𝐶≠𝐵 is fast finalized by some honest replica 𝑄. By the previous lemma, at
most 𝑝 honest replicas could first vote for anything other than 𝐶. Therefore, 𝑃 can receive at most
𝑓+𝑝first votes for𝐵, a contradiction.□
Lemma 5.6 (Absence of Fast Finalization Property).If the inequality allVotes(firstVote) −
maxVotes(firstVote) ≥𝑓+𝑝+ 1holds for a replica in slot 𝑣, then no block can be fast finalized in slot
𝑣by any replica.
Proof. Suppose towards contradiction that a replica 𝑃 fast finalized block 𝐵 while for replica 𝑄
the inequality holds. By Theorem 5.4, at most 𝑝 honest replicas fast vote for anything other than 𝐵.
Therefore, 𝑄 can receive at most 𝑓+𝑝 fast votes for anything other than 𝐵. Let count𝐵 denote the
number of first votes for𝐵 received by 𝑄. It follows that, at any point in time, for replica𝑄, we have
allVotes(firstVote) −maxVotes(firstVote) ≤allVotes(firstVote) −count 𝐵 ≤𝑓+𝑝,
a contradiction.□
Lemma 5.7 (Incompatibility of Notarization and (Fast) Finalization Property).Suppose
that a valid block 𝐵 for some slot 𝑣 is (fast) finalized by some replica. If any replica obtains a notarization
certificate for a block 𝐶 in slot 𝑣, then 𝐶=𝐵 . (In particular, no other block for slot 𝑣 can be added to
the complete block tree of any replica and no timeout certificate can be obtained for slot𝑣.)
Proof. We first prove the Incompatibility of Notarization andFastFinalization. Suppose towards
contradiction that for slot 𝑣 a fast finalization certificate exists for block 𝐵 and a notarization
certificate exists for block 𝐶, with 𝐶≠𝐵 . By Theorem 5.4 at most 𝑝 honest replicas first vote for
anything other than𝐵. By the Quorum Size Property (see Section 3.3.1) at least(𝑛−𝑓−𝑝) −𝑓≥
𝑓+𝑝+ 1honest replicas must send a notarization vote for 𝐶. Thus, at least 𝑓+ 1honest replicas
must send a notarization vote for𝐶afterhaving sent a first vote.
• On the one hand, suppose that a notarization vote for 𝐶 was sent by the protocol on line 31.
Due to the condition on line 28, this means that𝑓+𝑝+ 1first votes were received for a block
𝐷. Note that 𝐷 is a non-timeout block. Moreover, by the logic of ReconstructAndNotarize,
either 𝐶 is a timeout block or 𝐷=𝐶 . By the Uniqueness of Fast Finalization Property
(Theorem 5.5) we know that 𝐷=𝐵 . Since 𝐵 is assumed to be valid, 𝐶 cannot be a timeout
block, so we also have𝐵=𝐷=𝐶, a contradiction.
• On the other hand, suppose that a notarization vote for𝐶 was sent on line 34. By the Absence
of Fast Finalization Property (Theorem 5.6), this implies that no block is fast finalized, again
a contradiction.
The Incompatibility of Notarization and Finalization Property follows from a standard quorum
intersection argument, based on the fact that in each slot an honest replica issues a finalization
vote only for a block only if it did not send a notarization vote for a different block in that slot (see
line 11). Suppose towards contradiction that for slot 𝑣 a finalization certificate exists for block 𝐵
and a notarization certificate exists for block 𝐶, with 𝐶≠𝐵 . By the Quorum Size property (see
Section 3.3.1) for finalization and notarization certificates, if𝑓 ′ ≤𝑓 is the number of corrupt replicas,
then at least 𝑛−𝑓−𝑝−𝑓 ′ honest replicas broadcast finalization votes for 𝐵, and a disjoint set of

--- PAGE 13 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT 13
at least the same number of honest replicas broadcast notarization votes for 𝐶. This implies that
there are at least2 (𝑛−𝑓−𝑝−𝑓 ′) distinct honest replicas. However, under the assumption that
𝑛≥3𝑓+2𝑝+1, we have2(𝑛−𝑓−𝑝−𝑓 ′) ≥𝑛−𝑓 ′ +1, a contradiction.□
We can now easily state and prove our main safety lemma:
Lemma 5.8 (Safety).Suppose a replica 𝑃 explicitly finalizes a block 𝐵 for slot 𝑣, and a block 𝐶 for
slot 𝑤≥𝑣 is in the complete block tree of some replica 𝑄. Then 𝐵 is an ancestor of 𝐶 in 𝑄’s complete
block tree.
Proof. By the Incompatibility of Notarization and (Fast) Finalization Property (Theorem 5.7),
no timeout certificate for slot 𝑣 can be produced. Let 𝐶 ′ be the parent of 𝐶 and suppose 𝑤 ′ is the
slot number of 𝐶 ′. Since 𝐶 ′ is in 𝑄’s complete block tree, a notarization certificate for 𝐶 ′ must
have been produced, which means at least one honest replica must have issued a notarization vote
for 𝐶 ′, which means 𝑣≤𝑤 ′ <𝑤 . The inequality 𝑣≤𝑤 ′ follows from the fact that there is no
timeout certificate for slot 𝑣, and an honest replica will issue a notarization share for 𝐶 only if it
has timeout certificates for slots 𝑤 ′ + 1,· · ·, 𝑤− 1. If 𝑣=𝑤 ′, we are done by the Incompatibility
of Notarization and (Fast) Finalization Property (Theorem 5.7), and if 𝑣<𝑤 ′, we can repeat the
argument inductively with𝐶 ′ in place of𝐶.□
5.2 Liveness
Liveness follows from the following lemmas. The first lemma analyzes the optimistic case where
the network is synchronous and the leader of a given slot is honest, showing that the leader’s block
will be committed.
Lemma 5.9 (Liveness I).Consider a slot 𝑣≥ 1and suppose the leader for slot 𝑣 is an honest replica
𝑄. Suppose that the first honest replica 𝑃 to enter the loop iteration for slot 𝑣 does so at time 𝑇0. Suppose
that the network is 𝛿-synchronous over the interval [𝑇0, 𝑇0 + 4𝛿] for some 𝛿 with Δtimeout ≥ 2𝛿. Then,
𝑄 will propose a block for slot 𝑣 by time 𝑇≤𝑇 0 +𝛿 . Each honest replica will finish the loop iteration
before time 𝑇+ 2𝛿 by adding 𝑄’s proposed block𝐵 to its complete block tree. Moreover, if 𝑛−𝑝 replicas
are honest, each honest replica will finalize 𝐵 by time 𝑇+ 2𝛿. If more than 𝑝 replicas are corrupt, each
honest replica will finalize𝐵by time𝑇+3𝛿.
Proof. By the Completeness Properties (Theorem 5.2 and Theorem 5.3), before time𝑇0 +𝛿 , each
honest replica will enter slot 𝑣 by time 𝑇0 +𝛿 , having either a timeout certificate for slot 𝑣− 1or a
block for slot 𝑣− 1in its complete block tree. Before time 𝑇≤𝑇 0 +𝛿 , the leader 𝑄 will propose
a block 𝐵 that extends a block 𝐵′ with slot number 𝑣 ′ <𝑣 . By the logic of the protocol, we know
that 𝑄 must have timeout certificates for slots 𝑣 ′ + 1, . . . , 𝑣− 1at the time it makes its proposal, as
well as a notarization certificate for 𝐵′. Again by the Completeness Properties, before time 𝑇+𝛿 ,
each honest replica will have 𝐵′ in its complete block tree and all of these timeout certificates in
its certificate pool. Each honest replica will receive 𝐵 before this time, and because Δtimeout ≥ 2𝛿,
will broadcast a first vote for 𝐵 by this time. Because all honest replicas broadcast a first vote for 𝐵,
each such replica will only see ever see at most 𝑓 first votes for any other block. It follows that
each honest replica will only ever see
•manyVotes(firstVote) ⊆ {𝐵}, and
•allVotes(firstVote) −maxVotes(firstVote) ≤allVotes(firstVote) −count 𝐵 ≤𝑓 , where count𝐵
is the number of of first votes for𝐵that it sees.
Therefore, honest replicas will not broadcast a notarization votes in slot 𝑣 for anything other
than 𝐵. Before time 𝑇+ 2𝛿, each honest replica will have added 𝐵 to its complete block tree and
broadcast a finalization vote on 𝐵. If 𝑛−𝑝 replicas are honest, each honest replica will have added

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen
a fast finalization certificate to its pool by time 𝑇+ 2𝛿 as well. Otherwise, if more than 𝑝 replicas
are corrupt, each honest replica will finalize 𝐵 before time 𝑇+ 3𝛿, when adding the finalization
certificate for slot𝑣to its pool.□
The second lemma analyzes the pessimistic case, when the network is asynchronous or the
leader of a given slot is corrupt. It says that eventually, all honest replicas will move on to the next
slot.
Lemma 5.10 (Liveness II).Suppose that the network is 𝛿-synchronous over an interval [𝑇 , 𝑇+
Δtimeout + 3𝛿] , for an arbitrary value of 𝛿, and that at time 𝑇 , some honest replica is in the loop iteration
for slot 𝑣 and all other honest replicas are in a loop iteration for 𝑣 or a previous slot. Then, before time
𝑇+Δ timeout +3𝛿, all honest replicas exit slot𝑣.
Proof. By the Completeness Properties (Theorem 5.2 and Theorem 5.3), every honest replica
will enter the slot 𝑣 before time 𝑇+𝛿 . By time 𝑇+𝛿+Δ timeout, every honest replica will broadcast
a first vote either for a block proposal, or for𝐵 timeout
𝑣 .
Consider two cases:
(a) At least𝑓+𝑝+1honest replicas broadcast a first vote for the same non-timeout block𝐵.
(b) No set of𝑓+𝑝+1honest replicas broadcast a first vote for the same non-timeout block𝐵.
Case (a).Since 𝑓+𝑝+ 1replicas cast notarization votes for 𝐵, some honest replica did so. Since this
replica had to have 𝐵’s parent in its complete block tree, by Completeness Properties (Theorem 5.3)
each honest replica will have 𝐵’s parent in its complete block tree by time𝑇+Δ timeout + 2𝛿. All
honest replicas observe all first votes from other honest replicas before time 𝑇+Δ timeout + 2𝛿,
and so each honest replica will call ReconstructAndNotarize(𝑣, 𝐵) before that time, unless it has
already exited slot 𝑣. If some honest replica has exited slot 𝑣 before that time, the by Completeness
Properties (Theorem 5.2 and Theorem 5.3), all honest replicas will exit the slot before time 𝑇+
Δtimeout +3𝛿. Otherwise, assume no honest replica has exited before time𝑇+Δ timeout +2𝛿. Whenever
ReconstructAndNotarize(𝑣, 𝐵) is called by some honest replica, it has received at least 𝑓+𝑝+ 1
first votes for 𝐵, and so can attempt to reconstruct 𝐵. If it fails to reconstruct 𝐵’s payload or finds
that it is invalid, then it and all honest replicas will do so and issue a timeout vote (this follows
from collision resistance of the hash function and the fragment decoding logic). Otherwise, each
honest replica will issue a notarization vote for 𝐵. Therefore, before time 𝑇+Δ timeout + 3𝛿, each
honest replica will either add 𝐵 to its complete block tree or the timeout certificate to its pool, and
proceed exit the slot.
Case (b).Consider some honest replica 𝑃. By time 𝑇+Δ timeout + 2𝛿, 𝑃 will have observed all votes
of other honest replicas. If the only entries in firstVote are those from honest replicas, then the
inequality allVotes(firstVote) −maxVotes(firstVote) ≥𝑓+𝑝+ 1must hold. To see this, if 𝑓 ′ ≤𝑓 is
the number of corrupt replicas, then
allVotes(firstVote) −maxVotes(firstVote) ≥ (𝑛−𝑓 ′) − (𝑓+𝑝)
≥𝑛−2𝑓−𝑝
≥𝑓+𝑝+1(since𝑛≥3𝑓+2𝑝+1).
As we have already observed, the quantityallVotes(firstVote) −maxVotes(firstVote)cannot decrease
as we add entries to firstVote. Therefore if 𝑃 has not cast a timeout vote in slot 𝑣 yet, it will do so
by time 𝑇+Δ timeout + 2𝛿, unless it has already exited slot 𝑣 by that time. In either case, all honest
replicas will exit slot𝑣by time𝑇+Δ timeout +3𝛿.□

--- PAGE 15 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT 15
5.3 Boundedness
We prove some simple results that allow us to bound message and storage complexity. Here, we
are assuming both (1) and (2).
Let us consider notarization votes on non-timeout blocks. An honest replica sends a first vote for
at most one such block. Any notarization vote for some other non-timeout block 𝐵 requires that
the replica found 𝐵∈manyVotes(firstVotes) . In other words, the replica has seen at least 𝑓+𝑝+ 1
other replica’s first votes for𝐵. At most one first vote per replica is considered when computing
manyVotes(firstVotes). Therefore, an honest replica can cast at most ⌊𝑛/(𝑓+𝑝+ 1)⌋ notarization
votes beyond the first vote, and by (2), ⌊𝑛/(𝑓+𝑝+ 1)⌋ ≤ 2, for a total of 3 notarization votes for
non-timeout blocks.
Suppose there are 𝑓 ′ ≤𝑓 corrupt replicas, and so 𝑛−𝑓 ′ honest replicas. The honest replicas
therefore issue at most3(𝑛−𝑓 ′)notarization votes for non-timeout blocks per slot.
Now, to construct a notarization certificate for a non-timeout block 𝐵, we require that (𝑛−
𝑓−𝑝−𝑓 ′) honest replicas cast a notarization vote for 𝐵. Therefore, by the result in the previous
paragraph, there can be at most
𝑁 :=⌊(3(𝑛−𝑓 ′))/(𝑛−𝑓−𝑝−𝑓 ′)⌋(3)
distinct blocks for which a notarization certificate can be constructed.
We claim that 𝑁≤ 5. To see this, first note that the derivative of (3(𝑛−𝑓 ′))/(𝑛−𝑓−𝑝−𝑓 ′)
with respect to 𝑓 ′ is positive, and therefore the right-hand side of (3) is maximized when 𝑓=𝑓 ′,
and so
𝑁≤ ⌊(3(𝑛−𝑓))/(𝑛−2𝑓−𝑝)⌋.
So it suffices to show that (3(𝑛−𝑓))/(𝑛− 2𝑓−𝑝)< 6. This is easily seen to follow by a simple
calculation using (1).
So to summarize, we have shown that in any slot,
(1) each replica casts a notarization vote for at most2non-timeout blocks besides its first vote,
and
(2) there are at most5distinct blocks for which a notarization certificate can be constructed.
This immediately gives us bounds on the message and storage complexity of the protocol per slot.
5.4 Complexity
Based on the concrete bounds in Section 5.3 (and the preliminary discussion in Section 4.2), it
is easily seen that the message complexity per slot is 𝑂(𝑛 2). Based on the properties of erasure
codes and Merkle trees discussed in Section 3.3.2, the communication complexity per slot is
𝑂(𝛽𝑛+𝑛 2 log(𝑛)𝜅+𝑛 2𝜆), where 𝛽 is a bound on the payload size, 𝜅 is the output length of
the collision-resistant hash, and 𝜆 is a bound on the length of any signature share or certificate.
Moreover, the communication isbalanced, in that every replica,including the leader, transmits the
same amount of data, up to a constant factor. It is also easily seen that each replica needs to store
𝑂(𝛽+𝑛log(𝑛)𝜅+𝑛𝜆)bits of data.
6 Protocol Variations
Our protocol can be adapted to the setting of𝑛≥3𝑓+2𝑝 ∗ −1, where𝑝 ∗ ≥1[2], with the insight
that if honest replicas vote for different blocks in the same slot, the leader has to be corrupt. The
liveness analysis can leverage the fact that, in this case, honest replicas will observe at least 𝑛−𝑓
votes from non-leader replicas, as is done in [37]. We plan to analyze a variation ofKudzuwith
this adaptation in follow-up work.

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen
A variation of DispersedSimplex [34] features segments of consecutive slots with the same leader.
Such stable leader assignment is beneficial for the throughput of the protocol. The same technique
can be applied to our protocol, and we plan to analyze a variation ofKudzufeaturing stable leaders
in follow-up work.
References
[1] Abraham, I., Gueta, G., Malkhi, D., Alvisi, L., Kotla, R., Martin, J.P.: Revisiting fast practical byzantine fault tolerance.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.01367 (2017)
[2] Abraham, I., Nayak, K., Ren, L., Xiang, Z.: Good-case latency of byzantine broadcast: A complete categorization. In:
Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing. pp. 331–341 (2021)
[3] Alhaddad, N., Duan, S., Varia, M., Zhang, H.: Succinct erasure coding proof systems. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2021/1500 (2021), https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1500
[4] Aublin, P.L., Guerraoui, R., Knežević, N., Quéma, V., Vukolić, M.: The next 700 bft protocols. ACM Transactions on
Computer Systems (TOCS)32(4), 1–45 (2015)
[5] Blackshear, S., Chursin, A., Danezis, G., Kichidis, A., Kokoris-Kogias, L., Li, X., Logan, M., Menon, A., Nowacki, T.,
Sonnino, A., et al.: Sui lutris: A blockchain combining broadcast and consensus. Tech. rep., Technical Report. Mysten
Labs. https://sonnino. com/papers/sui-lutris. pdf (2023)
[6] Boldyreva, A.: Threshold signatures, multisignatures and blind signatures based on the gap-Diffie-Hellman-group
signature scheme. In: Desmedt, Y. (ed.) Public Key Cryptography - PKC 2003, 6th International Workshop on Theory
and Practice in Public Key Cryptography, Miami, FL, USA, January 6-8, 2003, Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, vol. 2567, pp. 31–46. Springer (2003). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-36288-6_3, https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-
36288-6_3
[7] Boneh, D., Drijvers, M., Neven, G.: Compact multi-signatures for smaller blockchains. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Paper 2018/483 (2018), https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/483
[8] Boneh, D., Lynn, B., Shacham, H.: Short signatures from the Weil pairing. In: Boyd, C. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology
- ASIACRYPT 2001, 7th International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information
Security, Gold Coast, Australia, December 9-13, 2001, Proceedings. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 2248, pp.
514–532. Springer (2001). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45682-1_30, https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-45682-1_30
[9] Brasileiro, F., Greve, F., Mostéfaoui, A., Raynal, M.: Consensus in one communication step. In: Parallel Computing
Technologies: 6th International Conference, PaCT 2001 Novosibirsk, Russia, September 3–7, 2001 Proceedings 6. pp.
42–50. Springer (2001)
[10] Buchman, E., Kwon, J., Milosevic, Z.: The latest gossip on BFT consensus (2018), arXiv:1807.04938, http://arxiv.org/abs/
1807.04938
[11] Buterin, V.: Ethereum: A next-generation smart contract and decentralized application platform. https://github.com/
ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper (2013)
[12] Cachin, C., Kursawe, K., Petzold, F., Shoup, V.: Secure and efficient asynchronous broadcast protocols. In: Annual
International Cryptology Conference. pp. 524–541. Springer (2001)
[13] Cachin, C., Tessaro, S.: Asynchronous verifiable information dispersal. In: 24th IEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed
Systems (SRDS’05). pp. 191–201. IEEE (2005)
[14] Castro, M., Liskov, B.: Practical byzantine fault tolerance. In: Seltzer, M.I., Leach, P.J. (eds.) Proceedings of the Third
USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI), New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, February
22-25, 1999. pp. 173–186. USENIX Association (1999), https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=296824
[15] Clement, A., Kapritsos, M., Lee, S., Wang, Y., Alvisi, L., Dahlin, M., Riche, T.: Upright cluster services. In: Proceedings
of the ACM SIGOPS 22nd symposium on Operating systems principles. pp. 277–290 (2009)
[16] Danezis, G., Kokoris-Kogias, L., Sonnino, A., Spiegelman, A.: Narwhal and Tusk: a DAG-based mempool and efficient
BFT consensus. In: Bromberg, Y., Kermarrec, A., Kozyrakis, C. (eds.) EuroSys ’22: Seventeenth European Conference on
Computer Systems, Rennes, France, April 5 - 8, 2022. pp. 34–50. ACM (2022). https://doi.org/10.1145/3492321.3519594,
https://doi.org/10.1145/3492321.3519594, also at arXiv:2105.11827, http://arxiv.org/abs/2105.11827
[17] Dolev, S., Wang, Z.: SodsBC: Stream of distributed secrets for quantum-safe blockchain. In: 2020 IEEE International
Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain). pp. 247–256. IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, CA, USA (2020)
[18] Dutta, P., Guerraoui, R., Vukolic, M.: The complexity of asynchronous byzantine consensus. Tech. rep., IC Technical
Report 200499, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (2004)
[19] Dwork, C., Lynch, N.A., Stockmeyer, L.J.: Consensus in the presence of partial synchrony. J. ACM35(2), 288–323
(1988). https://doi.org/10.1145/42282.42283, http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/42282.42283
[20] Foundation, S.: Turbine–solana’s block propagation protocol solves the scalability trilemma. https://solana.com/news/
turbine---solana-s-block-propagation-protocol-solves-the-scalability-trilemma (2019)

--- PAGE 17 ---
Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT 17
[21] Guerraoui, R., Vukolić, M.: Refined quorum systems. In: Proceedings of the twenty-sixth annual ACM symposium on
Principles of distributed computing. pp. 119–128 (2007)
[22] Gueta, G.G., Abraham, I., Grossman, S., Malkhi, D., Pinkas, B., Reiter, M., Seredinschi, D.A., Tamir, O., Tomescu, A.:
Sbft: A scalable and decentralized trust infrastructure. In: 2019 49th Annual IEEE/IFIP international conference on
dependable systems and networks (DSN). pp. 568–580. IEEE (2019)
[23] Kang, D., Gupta, S., Malkhi, D., Sadoghi, M.: Hotstuff-1: Linear consensus with one-phase speculation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.04728 (2024)
[24] Keidar, I., Kokoris-Kogias, E., Naor, O., Spiegelman, A.: All you need is DAG. In: Miller, A., Censor-Hillel, K., Korhonen,
J.H. (eds.) PODC ’21: ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, Virtual Event, Italy, July 26-30, 2021.
pp. 165–175. ACM (2021). https://doi.org/10.1145/3465084.3467905, https://doi.org/10.1145/3465084.3467905, also at
arXiv:2102.08325, http://arxiv.org/abs/2102.08325
[25] Kniep, Q., Sliwinski, J., Wattenhofer, R.: Solana alpenglow consensus. https://www.anza.xyz/alpenglow-1-1 (2025)
[26] Kotla, R., Alvisi, L., Dahlin, M., Clement, A., Wong, E.: Zyzzyva: speculative byzantine fault tolerance. In: Proceedings
of twenty-first ACM SIGOPS symposium on Operating systems principles. pp. 45–58 (2007)
[27] Kursawe, K.: Optimistic byzantine agreement. In: 21st IEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems, 2002.
Proceedings. pp. 262–267. IEEE (2002)
[28] Kuznetsov, P., Tonkikh, A., Zhang, Y.X.: Revisiting optimal resilience of fast byzantine consensus. In: Proceedings of
the 2021 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing. p. 343–353. PODC’21, Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA (2021). https://doi.org/10.1145/3465084.3467924, https://doi.org/10.1145/3465084.
3467924
[29] Lamport, L., Shostak, R., Pease, M.: The byzantine generals problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages
and Systems4(3), 382–401 (1982)
[30] Lewis-Pye, A., Nayak, K., Shrestha, N.: The pipes model for latency and throughput analysis. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2025/1116 (2025), https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/1116
[31] Lu, Y., Lu, Z., Tang, Q., Wang, G.: Dumbo-MVBA: Optimal multi-valued validated asynchronous byzantine agreement,
revisited. In: Emek, Y., Cachin, C. (eds.) PODC ’20: ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, Virtual
Event, Italy, August 3-7, 2020. pp. 129–138. ACM (2020). https://doi.org/10.1145/3382734.3405707, https://doi.org/10.
1145/3382734.3405707
[32] Martin, J.P., Alvisi, L.: Fast byzantine consensus. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing3(3),
202–215 (2006)
[33] Miller, A., Xia, Y., Croman, K., Shi, E., Song, D.: The honey badger of BFT protocols. In: Weippl, E.R., Katzenbeisser, S.,
Kruegel, C., Myers, A.C., Halevi, S. (eds.) Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communi-
cations Security, Vienna, Austria, October 24-28, 2016. pp. 31–42. ACM (2016). https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978399,
also at https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/199
[34] Shoup, V.: Sing a Song of Simplex. In: Alistarh, D. (ed.) 38th International Symposium on Distributed Computing
(DISC 2024). Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics (LIPIcs), vol. 319, pp. 37:1–37:22. Schloss Dagstuhl
– Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik, Dagstuhl, Germany (2024). https://doi.org/10.4230/LIPIcs.DISC.2024.37, https:
//drops.dagstuhl.de/entities/document/10.4230/LIPIcs.DISC.2024.37
[35] Song, Y.J., van Renesse, R.: Bosco: One-step byzantine asynchronous consensus. In: International Symposium on
Distributed Computing. pp. 438–450. Springer (2008)
[36] Stathakopoulou, C., David, T., Pavlovic, M., Vukolić, M.: Mir-BFT: High-throughput robust bft for decentralized
networks (2019), arXiv:1906.05552, http://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05552
[37] Vonlanthen, Y., Sliwinski, J., Albarello, M., Wattenhofer, R.: Banyan: Fast rotating leader bft. In: Proceedings of the
25th International Middleware Conference. pp. 494–507 (2024)
[38] Yakovenko, A.: Solana: A new architecture for a high performance blockchain v0.8.13. https://solana.com/solana-
whitepaper.pdf (2018)
[39] Yang, L., Park, S.J., Alizadeh, M., Kannan, S., Tse, D.: Dispersedledger: High-throughput byzantine consensus on
variable bandwidth networks. In: 19th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI
22). pp. 493–512 (2022)
[40] Yin, M., Malkhi, D., Reiter, M.K., Gueta, G.G., Abraham, I.: HotStuff: BFT consensus in the lens of blockchain (2018),
arXiv:1803.05069, http://arxiv.org/abs/1803.05069