
--- PAGE 1 ---
Minimmit: Fast Finality with Even Faster Blocks
BRENDAN KOBAYASHI CHOU1, ANDREW LEWIS-PYE 1,2, and PATRICK O’GRADY1,
1 Commonware, USA and 2 London School of Economics, UK
Achieving low-latency consensus in geographically distributed systems remains a key challenge for blockchain
and distributed database applications. To this end, there has been significant recent interest in State-Machine-
Replication (SMR) protocols that achieve2-round finalityunder the assumption that5 𝑓+ 1 ≤𝑛 , where 𝑛 is
the number of processors and 𝑓 bounds the number of processors that may exhibit Byzantine faults. In these
protocols, instructions are organised intoviews, each led by a different designated leader, and 2-round finality
means that a leader’s proposal can be finalised after just a single round of voting, meaning two rounds overall
(one round for the proposal and one for voting).
We introduce Minimmit, a Byzantine-fault-tolerant SMR protocol with lower latency than previous 2-
round finality approaches. Our key insight is that view progression and transaction finality can operate on
different quorum thresholds without compromising consistency or liveness. Experiments simulating a globally
distributed network of 50 processors, uniformly assigned across ten virtual regions, show that the approach
leads to a 23.1% reduction in view latency and a 10.7% reduction in transaction latency compared to the
state-of-the-art.
1 Introduction
Protocols for State-Machine-Replication (‘blockchain’ protocols) are commonly designed to tolerate
periods of unreliable message delivery. Formally, this means that protocols are required to satisfy
consistency(all correct processors agree on the sequence of finalised transactions) andliveness
(transactions are eventually finalised by correct processors) in thepartially synchronoussetting. In
this setting, it is known [13] that satisfying both liveness and consistency is possible precisely if
𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 1, where 𝑛 is the number of processors and 𝑓 bounds the number of processors that may
exhibit Byzantine faults.
A key metric when considering the efficiency of State-Machine-Replication (SMR) protocols is
transaction latency, i.e., the time it takes for transactions to befinalised. Most protocols organise
operations intoviews, led by designatedleaders, making the number of communication rounds per
view a crucial consideration in analysing latency. Under the standard assumption that𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 1, it
is known [3] that ‘3-round’ finality is optimal: here 3-round finality means that a leader’s proposal
can be finalised after two further rounds of voting (this gives three communication rounds overall:
round 1 for the proposal and rounds 2 and 3 for voting). Accordingly, standard protocols such as
PBFT [10] and Tendermint [7, 8] have 3-round finality. On the other hand, it has been known for
some time [27] that 2-round finality (one round for the proposal and one further round of voting)
is possible under the assumption that 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1. Recent research has seen a significant renewed
interest in approaches to 2-round finality: In the last year, Matter Labs released ChonkyBFT [14],
Offchain Labs released Kudzu [ 31], Anza Labs and Solana released Alpenglow [ 18], and Supra
Research and Espresso Systems released Hydrangea [ 32]. In part, the motivation for this focus
on the 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1assumption is driven by the scale of modern blockchain systems. When SMR
protocols were first deployed in the 1980s, 𝑛 was small. Today, a typical blockchain system may
consist of thousands of processors, meaning that Byzantine attacks on a significant fraction of
participants would be extremely costly, and are deemed unlikely. This makes it appropriate to shift
the resilience requirement from 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 1to 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1, since doing so allows for a significant
reduction in latency.
This paper describes Minimmit, which differs from previous protocols with 2-round finality by
foregoing theslow paththat is used by most previous protocols when 2-round finality fails, and by
allowing processors to proceed to the next view after receiving only2 𝑓+ 1votes. The idea behind
arXiv:2508.10862v7  [cs.DC]  27 Jan 2026

--- PAGE 2 ---
Chou et al.2
this tradeoff is that, in a globally distributed network of processors with a range of connection
speeds, receiving a smaller quorum of votes will often take significantly less time than waiting for
a larger quorum of votes. Requiring the smallest possible quorum for view progression therefore
reduces view latency (time between views). This also reduces transaction latency, i.e., the time it
takes to finalise transactions, since transactions wait for less time before being included in a block.
1.1 Evidence for reduced latency
To evaluate the performance of Minimmit, we implemented a network simulator1 that runs custom
workloads over configurable network topologies. This simulator provides each participant the
opportunity to drive the simulation (i.e. propose a block) while collecting telemetry by region and
role. To model realistic network conditions, we apply latency and jitter to message broadcasts using
empirical measurements of AWS inter-region performance over the public internet from the past
year.
We distinguishview latency(time between views),block latency(time to finalise blocks), and
transaction latency(time to finalise transactions). To analyse how different protocols compare across
these metrics, we tested Simplex [11], Kudzu [31], and Minimmit on a globally distributed network
of 50 processors uniformly assigned across ten “virtual” regions: us-west-1, us-east-1, eu-west-1,
ap-northeast-1, eu-north-1, ap-south-1, sa-east-1, eu-central-1, ap-northeast-2, and ap-southeast-2.
While we implemented Simplex specifically, finalisation times will be similar for other standard
3-round finality protocols that employ ‘all-to-all’ message sending, such as PBFT and Tendermint,
since they use the same structure of leader proposal, followed by two rounds of voting. Likewise,
Kudzu is representative of other 2-round finality protocols that employ ‘all-to-all’ message sending
and a fast path mechanism, such as Alpenglow2 and Hydrangea. Under these conditions, Simplex
achieves view latency 194ms (with standard deviation 𝜎=30ms) and block latency 299ms (𝜎=26ms).
Kudzu achieves view latency 190ms and block latency 220ms (𝜎=29ms). Minimmit achieves view
latency 146ms (𝜎=21ms) and block latency 220ms (𝜎=28ms). Minimmit reduces view latency by
25% compared to Simplex and 23% compared to Kudzu. Minimmit reduces block latency by 26%
compared to Simplex, equivalent to Kudzu.
For fixed sized blocks, decreased view latency clearly translates into increased throughput.
However, it also produces reduced transaction latency for users. Consider a transaction submitted
immediately after block construction at ‘height’3 ℎ. This transaction must await inclusion in a
block of height ℎ+ 1and for that block’s subsequent finalisation. In recently proposed protocols
operating under the 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1assumption – such as Kudzu, Alpenglow, and Hydrangea – view
progression requires 𝑛− 2𝑓 votes. Consequently, transaction finalisation requires waiting for both
the completion of the current view (190ms) and the finalisation of the subsequent block containing
the transaction (220ms), totalling 410ms in this model. In contrast, Minimmit’s view progression
threshold of2 𝑓+ 1enables the same transaction to achieve finalisation in 146ms + 220ms = 366ms,
representing a 10.7% reduction in end-to-end latency.
1.2 Our contributions
Our contributions are as follows:
(1) We describe a novel view-change mechanism to reduce view latency;
1https://github.com/commonwarexyz/monorepo/tree/19f19d32760daf1d497295726ec92a1e6b84959f/examples/estimator
2As discussed in Section 7, direct comparisons with Alpenglow are complicated by the fact that Alpenglow incorporates a
scheme for disseminating erasure-coded block data during fixed 400ms slots, and so is non-responsive. The fixed 400ms
window causes significantly increased view latency for Alpenglow for the parameters considered in our experiments.
3Theheightof a block is its number of ancestors. Ancestors are formally defined in Section 2.

--- PAGE 3 ---
Chou et al.3
(2) We give formal proofs of safety, liveness and optimistic responsiveness,4 under the 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1
assumption;
(3) We carry out experimental evaluations, showing roughly a 23% reduction in view latency
and an 11% reduction in transaction latency compared to the state-of-the-art.
(4) In Section 6, we describe (along with other optimisations) a mechanism that uses aggregate
signatures to bound the communication required to achieve liveness after periods of asyn-
chrony. This approach may also be applied to improve efficiency for other protocols in the
‘Simplex mould’.
(5) In Appendices B–E we show how to implement a version of Minimmit that uses erasure
coding with adata expansionrate of 2.5. If blocks are of size 𝐵, this means that the total
amount of block data sent by each leader (to all processors combined) is roughly2.5𝐵.
1.3 Dropping the slow path
Many 2-round finality protocols implement a ‘slow path’ to be used when 2-round finality fails:
generally, this slow path just requires an extra round of voting. Since Minimmit achieves improved
latency by foregoing the ‘slow path’, it is interesting to analyse any resulting sacrifice in resilience,
when compared to other leading protocols.
Alpenglow. Alpenglow is formally analysed under the same assumption that 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1. While
there is some consideration of circumstances in which the protocol can tolerate a further 𝑓 crash
failures, the required assumptions for this case (essentially that Byzantine leaders cannot carry out
a form of proposal equivocation) do not hold under partial synchrony.
Kudzu. Kudzu makes the more general assumption that 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1for a tunable parameter 𝑝.
Of course, in the case that 𝑝=𝑓 , this corresponds to the same assumption that 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1. The
protocol guarantees liveness and consistency so long as at most 𝑓 processors display Byzantine
faults. It also guarantees that, during synchrony, a correct leader can finalise a block after a single
round of voting, so long as the number of faulty processors is ≤𝑝 . For a correct leader during
synchrony, the ‘slow path’ (requiring two rounds of voting) is therefore only relevant if the number
of faulty processors is strictly between 𝑝 and 𝑓 . In this case, the quorum required for finality after
a single round of voting is also larger than for Minimmit (𝑛−𝑝 rather than 𝑛−𝑓 ). Kudzu therefore
gives no strict ‘like-for-like’ improvement in resilience compared to Minimmit, although the tunable
parameter that Kudzu provides is beneficial.
Hydrangea. Compared to Minimmit, Alpenglow, and Kudzu, Hydrangea has improved resilience
to crash failures. As before, consider the case of a correct leader during synchrony. For a parameter
𝑘≥ 0, and for a system of 𝑛= 3𝑓+ 2𝑐+𝑘+ 1processors, Hydrangea achieves finality after 1 round
of voting, so long as the number of faulty processors (Byzantine or crash) is at most 𝑝=⌊ 𝑐+𝑘
2 ⌋. In
the case that 𝑐= 0, this aligns precisely with the bounds provided by Kudzu. However, in more
adversarial settings with up to 𝑓 Byzantine faults and 𝑐 crash faults, Hydrangea also obtains finality
after two rounds of voting. Of course, the benefit of Minimmit is that it achieves reduced transaction
latency in the case that𝑛≥5𝑓+1.
1.4 Paper structure
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows:
•Section 2 describes the formal setup.
•Section 3 describes the intuition behind Minimmit.
•Section 4 formally specifies the Minimmit protocol.
4Optimistic responsiveness will be defined in Section 5.3.

--- PAGE 4 ---
Chou et al.4
•Section 5 gives formal proofs of consistency and liveness.
• Section 6 describes a number of optimisations, such as the use of threshold signatures, erasure
coding, and the use of aggregate signatures to speed up message dissemination and fast
recovery after periods of asynchrony.
•Section 7 describes our experiments and results.
•Section 8 describes related work.
•Section 9 contains some final comments and conclusions.
• Appendix A describes how to reproduce our experiments using thecommonware-estimator.5
•Appendix B describes the setup required for erasure coding.
•Appendix C gives the intuition behind our efficient integration of erasure codes.
•Appendix D gives a formal specification of E-Minimmit (Minimmit with erasure codes).
•Appendix E establishes consistency and liveness for E-Minimmit.
2 The Setup
We consider a set Π={𝑝 1, . . . , 𝑝𝑛 } of 𝑛 processors. For 𝑓 such that5 𝑓+ 1 ≤𝑛 , at most 𝑓 processors
may become corrupted by the adversary during the course of the execution, and may then display
Byzantine(arbitrary) behaviour. Processors that never become corrupted by the adversary are
referred to ascorrect.
Cryptographic assumptions. Our cryptographic assumptions are standard for papers on this
topic. Processors communicate by point-to-point authenticated channels. We use a cryptographic
signature scheme, a public key infrastructure (PKI) to validate signatures, and a collision resistant
hash function 𝐻.6 We assume a computationally bounded adversary. Following a common standard
in distributed computing and for simplicity of presentation (to avoid the analysis of negligible error
probabilities), we assume these cryptographic schemes are perfect, i.e., we restrict attention to
executions in which the adversary is unable to break these cryptographic schemes.
The partial synchrony model. As noted above, processors communicate using point-to-point
authenticated channels. We consider the standard partial synchrony model, whereby the execution
is divided into discrete timeslots 𝑡∈N ≥0 and a message sent at time 𝑡 must arrive at time 𝑡 ′ >𝑡
with 𝑡 ′ ≤max{GST, 𝑡} +Δ . While Δ is known, the value of GST is unknown to the protocol.
The adversary chooses GST and also message delivery times, subject to the constraints already
defined. Correct processors begin the protocol execution before GST and are not assumed to have
synchronised clocks. For simplicity, we do assume that the clocks of correct processors all proceed
in real time, meaning that if 𝑡 ′ >𝑡 then the local clock of correct 𝑝 at time 𝑡 ′ is 𝑡 ′ −𝑡 in advance
of its value at time 𝑡. Using standard arguments, our protocol and analysis can be extended in a
straightforward way to the case in which there is a known upper bound on the difference between
the clock speeds of correct processors.
Transactions. Transactions are messages of a distinguished form, signed by theenvironment. Each
timeslot, each processor may receive some finite set of transactions directly from the environment.
We make the standard assumption that transactions are unique (repeat transactions can be produced
using an increasing ‘ticker’ or timestamps [10]).
State machine replication. If 𝜎 and 𝜏 are sequences, we write 𝜎⪯𝜏 to denote that 𝜎 is a prefix of
𝜏. We say 𝜎 and 𝜏 arecompatibleif 𝜎⪯𝜏 or 𝜏⪯𝜎 . If two sequences are not compatible, they are
incompatible. If 𝜎 is a sequence of transactions, we write tr∈𝜎 to denote that the transaction tr
5https://github.com/commonwarexyz/monorepo/tree/19f19d32760daf1d497295726ec92a1e6b84959f/examples/estimator
6In Section 6 and the appendices, we will also consider optimisations of the protocol that use threshold signatures, aggregate
signatures, and erasure codes.

--- PAGE 5 ---
Chou et al.5
belongs to the sequence 𝜎. Each processor 𝑝𝑖 is required to maintain an append-only log, denoted
log𝑖, which at any timeslot is a sequence of distinct transactions. We also writelog𝑖 (𝑡) to denote the
value log𝑖 at the end of timeslot𝑡. The log being append-only means that for𝑡 ′ >𝑡 , log𝑖 (𝑡) ⪯log 𝑖 (𝑡 ′).
We require the following conditions to hold in every execution:
Consistency. If 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑝 𝑗 are correct, then for any timeslots 𝑡 and 𝑡 ′, log𝑖 (𝑡) and log𝑗 (𝑡 ′) are
compatible.
Liveness. If𝑝 𝑖 and𝑝 𝑗 are correct and if𝑝 𝑖 receives the transaction tr then, for some𝑡, tr∈log 𝑗 (𝑡).
Blocks, parents, ancestors, and finalisation. We specify a protocol that producesblocksof
transactions. Among other values, each block 𝑏 specifies a value 𝑏.Tr, which is a sequence of
transactions. There is a uniquegenesisblock 𝑏gen, which is consideredfinalisedat the start of the
protocol execution. Each block 𝑏 other than the genesis block has a uniqueparent. Theancestors
of 𝑏 are 𝑏 and all ancestors of its parent (while the genesis block has only itself as ancestor), and
each block has the genesis block as an ancestor. Each block 𝑏 thus naturally specifies an extended
sequence of transactions, denoted 𝑏.Tr ∗, given by concatenating the values𝑏′.Tr for all ancestors 𝑏′
of 𝑏, removing any duplicate transactions. When a processor 𝑝𝑖 finalises 𝑏 at timeslot 𝑡, this means
that, upon obtaining all ancestors of 𝑏, it sets log𝑖 (𝑡) to extend 𝑏.Tr ∗. Two blocks areinconsistentif
neither is an ancestor of the other.
3 The intuition
In this section, we give an informal account of the intuition behind the protocol design.
One round of voting. We aim to specify a standard form ofview-basedprotocol, in which each
view has a designatedleader. If a view has a correct leader and begins after GST, the leader should
send a block 𝑏 to all other processors, who will then send a signedvotefor 𝑏 to all others. Upon
receipt of 𝑛−𝑓 votes for 𝑏 (by distinct processors), our intention is that processors should then be
able to immediately finalise 𝑏: this is called2-round finality[ 27] (one round to send the block and
one round for voting).5 𝑓− 1 ≤𝑛 is necessary and sufficient7 for 2-round finality: we make the
assumption that5 𝑓+ 1 ≤𝑛 for simplicity. We’ll call a set of𝑛−𝑓 votes for a block anL-notarisation
(where ‘L’ stands for ‘large’).
When to enter the next view?We specified above that a single L-notarisation should suffice for
finality. However, as well as achieving 2-round finality, we also wish processors to proceed to the
next view immediately upon seeing a smaller set of votes, which we’ll call anM-notarisation(where
the ‘M’ stands for ‘mini’). As explained in Section 1, the rationale behind this is that, in realistic
scenarios, receiving 𝑛−𝑓 votes will generally take much longer than receiving a significantly
smaller set of votes (of size2 𝑓+ 1, say). Proceeding to view 𝑣+ 1immediately upon seeing an
M-notarisation for 𝑏 in view 𝑣 therefore speeds up the process of block formation: processors can
begin view𝑣+1earlier, and then finalise𝑏upon later receiving the larger notarisation.
How many votes should we require for an M-notarisation? Note that, so long as correct processors
don’t vote for more than one block in a view, the following will hold:
(X1) If 𝑏 for view 𝑣 receives an L-notarisation, then no block 𝑏′ ≠𝑏 for view 𝑣 receives2 𝑓+ 1
votes.
To see this, suppose towards a contradiction that 𝑏 for view 𝑣 receives an L-notarisation and 𝑏′ ≠𝑏
for view 𝑣 receives2 𝑓+ 1votes. Let 𝑃 be the set of processors that contribute to the L-notarisation
for 𝑏, and let 𝑃 ′ be the set of processors that vote for𝑏′. Then |𝑃∩𝑃 ′ | ≥ (𝑛−𝑓) + ( 2𝑓+ 1) −𝑛=𝑓+ 1.
7See [21] and https://decentralizedthoughts.github.io/2021-03-03-2-round-bft-smr-with-n-equals-4-f-equals-1/

--- PAGE 6 ---
Chou et al.6
So, 𝑃∩𝑃 ′ contains a correct processor, which contradicts the claim that correct processors don’t
vote for two blocks in one view.
So, if we set an M-notarisation to be a set of2 𝑓+ 1votes for 𝑏, and allow processors to proceed
to view 𝑣+ 1upon seeing an M-notarisation for 𝑏 in view 𝑣, then any processor receiving an
M-notarisation for 𝑏 knows that no block 𝑏′ ≠𝑏 for view 𝑣 can receive an L-notarisation. In
particular, it is useful to see things from the perspective of the leader, 𝑝𝑖 say, of view 𝑣+ 1. If 𝑝𝑖 has
seen an M-notarisation for 𝑏 in view 𝑣, and so long as 𝑝𝑖 resends this to other processors,8 𝑝𝑖 can
be sure that all processors have proof that no block other than 𝑏 could have been finalised in view
𝑣. So, 𝑝𝑖 can propose a block with 𝑏 as parent, and all correct processors will have evidence that it
is safe to vote for𝑝 𝑖’s proposal.
Nullifications. Since it may be the case that no block for view 𝑣 receives an M-notarisation (e.g.,
if the leader is Byzantine), processors must sometimes produce signed messages indicating that
they wish to move to view 𝑣+ 1because of a lack of progress in view 𝑣: we’ll call these nullify(𝑣)
messages.9 We do not yet specify precisely when processors send nullify(𝑣) messages (we will do
so shortly). For now, we promise only that a statement analogous to (X1) will hold fornullify(𝑣)
messages:
(X2) If some block 𝑏 for view 𝑣 receives an L-notarisation, then it is not the case that2 𝑓+ 1
processors send nullify(𝑣)messages.
With the promise of (X2) in place, let’s define anullificationto be a set of2 𝑓+ 1nullify (𝑣) messages
(signed by distinct processors). We specify that a processor should enter view 𝑣+ 1upon receiving
either:
•An M-notarisation for view𝑣, or;
•A nullification for view𝑣.
So long as (X2) holds, any processor receiving a nullification for view 𝑣 knows that no block for
view𝑣can receive an L-notarisation.
Defining valid proposals so as to maintain consistency. Suppose𝑝 𝑖 is the leader of view𝑣:
(i) Upon entering view 𝑣, 𝑝𝑖 finds the greatest 𝑣 ′ <𝑣 such that it has received an M-notarisation
for some block 𝑏 for view 𝑣 ′: since 𝑝𝑖 has entered view 𝑣, it must have received nullifications
for all views in(𝑣 ′, 𝑣). Processor𝑝 𝑖 then proposes a block𝑏 ′ with𝑏as parent.
(ii) Other processors will vote for 𝑏′, so long as they see nullifications for all views in (𝑣 ′, 𝑣)
and an M-notarisation for 𝑏: since all processors (including 𝑝𝑖) will resend notarisations and
nullifications upon first receiving them, if view 𝑣 begins after GST, 𝑝𝑖 can therefore be sure
that all correct processors will receive the messages they need in order to vote for𝑏 ′.
It should also not be difficult to see that this will guarantee consistency (see Section 5 for the full
proof). Towards a contradiction, suppose that 𝑏1 for view 𝑣1 receives an L-notarisation, and that
there is a least view 𝑣2 ≥𝑣 1 such that some block 𝑏2 for view 𝑣2 that does not have 𝑏1 as an ancestor
receives an M-notarisation. From (X1) it follows that 𝑣2 >𝑣 1. By our choice of 𝑣2, and since correct
processors will not vote for blocks until they see an M-notarisation for the parent, it follows that
the parent of 𝑏2 must be for a view <𝑣 1. This gives a contradiction, because correct processors
would not vote for 𝑏2 in view 𝑣2 without seeing a nullification for view 𝑣1. Such a nullification
cannot exist, by(𝑋2).
8To reduce communication complexity, this could be done using a threshold signature scheme, but we defer such considera-
tions to Section 6.
9Our approach here is somewhat similar to Simplex [11], but the reader need not have familiarity with that protocol to
follow the discussion.

--- PAGE 7 ---
Chou et al.7
Ensuring liveness. To ensure liveness, we must first guarantee that if all correct processors enter
a view, then they all eventually leave the view. To this end we allow that, while correct processors
will not vote in any view 𝑣 after sending a nullify(𝑣) message, theymaysend nullify (𝑣) messages
after voting. More precisely, correct𝑝 𝑖 will send a nullify(𝑣)message while in view𝑣if either:
(a) Their ‘timer’ for view𝑣expires (time2Δpasses after entering the view)before voting, or;
(b) They receive messages from2𝑓+1processors, each of which is either:
•A nullify(𝑣)message, or;
•A vote for a view𝑣block different than a view𝑣block that𝑝 𝑖 has already voted for.
Combined with the fact that correct processors will forward on nullifications and notarisations
upon receiving them, the conditions above achieve two things. First, they suffice to ensure that
(X2) is satisfied. If 𝑏 for view 𝑣 receives an L-notarisation, then let 𝑃 be the correct processors that
vote for 𝑏, let 𝑃 ′ =Π\𝑃 , and note that |𝑃 ′ | ≤ 2𝑓 . No processor in 𝑃 can send a nullify(𝑣) message
via (a) or vote for a view 𝑣 block other than 𝑏. It follows that no processor in 𝑃 can be caused to
send a nullify(𝑣)message via (b). So, at most2𝑓processors can send nullify(𝑣)messages.
The conditions above also suffice to ensure that if all correct processors enter a view𝑣, then they
all eventually leave the view. Towards a contradiction, suppose all correct processors enter view 𝑣,
but it is not the case that they all leave the view. Since correct processors forward nullifications
and notarisations upon receiving them, this means that no correct processor leaves view 𝑣. Each
correct processor eventually receives, from at least 𝑛−𝑓 processors, either a vote for some block
for view 𝑣 or a nullify (𝑣) message. If any correct processor receives an M-notarisation for the
block they voted for, then we reach an immediate contradiction. So, suppose otherwise. If 𝑝𝑖 is a
correct processor that votes for a view 𝑣 block, it follows that 𝑝𝑖 receives messages from at least
(𝑛−𝑓) − ( 2𝑓)=𝑛− 3𝑓≥ 2𝑓+ 1processors, each of which is either a nullify (𝑣) message or a vote
for a view 𝑣 block different than the view 𝑣 block that 𝑝𝑖 votes for. So, 𝑝𝑖 sends a nullify(𝑣) message
via (b). Any correct processor that does not vote for a view 𝑣 block also sends a nullify(𝑣) message,
so all correct processors send nullify(𝑣)messages, giving the required contradiction.
Adding an extra instruction to send votes. Once we have ensured that correct processors progress
through the views, establishing liveness amounts to showing that each correct leader after GST
finalises a new block. This now follows quite easily, using the reasoning outlined in (i) and (ii)
above, where we explained that (after GST) processors are guaranteed to receive all the messages
they need to verify the validity of a block proposed by a correct leader. However, a subtle issue
does require us to stipulate one further context in which correct processors should vote for a block.
Suppose view 𝑣 begins after GST and that the leader for view 𝑣 is correct. Since a correct processor
𝑝𝑖 proceeds to view 𝑣+ 1immediately upon seeing an M-notarisation for a view 𝑣 block 𝑏, and
since it is possible that this is receivedbefore 𝑝𝑖 receives all nullifications required to verify that 𝑝𝑖
should vote for 𝑏, the possibility apparently remains that correct processors will proceed to view
𝑣+ 1without 𝑏 receiving an L-notarisation, i.e., we do not yet have any guarantee that all correct
processors will vote for 𝑏. To avoid this, we stipulate that, if 𝑝𝑖 receives an M-notarisation for 𝑏
and has not previously sent a nullify(𝑣) message or voted during view 𝑣, then 𝑝𝑖 should vote for
𝑏 before entering view 𝑣+ 1. In this case, the fact that 𝑏 has already received an M-notarisation
means that some correct processors have already voted for 𝑏, so it is safe for 𝑝𝑖 to do the same. The
formal proof appears in Section 5.
Intuition summary (informal):
• In each view, the leader proposes a block and all processors then vote (one round of voting).
Correct processors vote for at most one block in each view, which ensures (X1).

--- PAGE 8 ---
Chou et al.8
• An L-notarisation suffices for finalization, while an M-notarisation or a nullification suffices
to move to the next view.
• Processors only vote for the block 𝑏 for view 𝑣, with parent 𝑏′ for view 𝑣 ′, if they have seen a
notarisation for 𝑏′ and nullifications for all views in (𝑣 ′, 𝑣). Using (X1) and (X2), this suffices
for safety.
• To ensure progression through the views, processors send nullify(𝑣) messages upon timing
out (2Δ after entering the view) before voting, or upon receiving proof that no block for view
𝑣will receive an L-notarisation. This ensures (X2) is satisfied.
• Once we are given that processors progress through views, liveness follows from the fact
that each correct leader after GST will finalise a new block: correct processors will vote for
the leader’s proposal because the leader themself will have sent all messages required to
verify the validity of the block. Since correct processors also vote for the leader’s block in
view 𝑣 upon seeing an M-notarisation for it (if they have not already voted in view 𝑣, or sent
a nullify(𝑣) message), this ensures all correct processors vote for the block before leaving
view𝑣, and it receives an L-notarisation.
4 The formal specification
We initially give a specification aimed at simplicity. In Section 6, we will describe optimisations,
such as the use of threshold signatures to reduce communication complexity. In what follows,
we suppose that all messages are signed by the sender. We say ‘disseminate’ to mean ‘send to
all processors’. When a correct processor is instructed to send a message to itself, it regards that
message as immediately received. For the sake of simplicity, we also initially assume (without
explicit mention in the pseudocode) that correct processors automatically send new transactions to
all others upon first receiving them - we will revisit this assumption in Section 6. The pseudocode
uses a number of message types, local variables, functions and procedures, detailed below.
The function lead(𝑣) . The value lead(𝑣) specifies the leader for view 𝑣. To be concrete, we set10
lead(𝑣):=𝑝 𝑗+1, where𝑗=𝑣mod𝑛.
Blocks. Thegenesis blockis the tuple 𝑏gen :=( 0, 𝜆, 𝜆), where 𝜆 denotes the empty sequence (of
length 0). A block other than the genesis block is a tuple𝑏=(𝑣,Tr, ℎ), signed bylead(𝑣), where:
•𝑣∈N ≥1 (thought of as the view corresponding to𝑏);
•Tr is a sequence of distinct transactions;
•ℎis a hash value (used to specify𝑏’s parent).
We also write 𝑏.view, 𝑏.Tr and 𝑏.par to denote the corresponding entries of 𝑏. If 𝑏.view=𝑣 , we
also refer to𝑏as a ‘view𝑣block’.
Votes. Avotefor the block𝑏is a message of the form(vote, 𝑏).
M-notarisations. An M-notarisationfor the block 𝑏 is a set of2 𝑓+ 1votes for 𝑏, each signed by a
different processor. (By an M-notarisation, we mean an M-notarisation for some block.)
L-notarisations. AnL-notarisationfor the block 𝑏 is a set of 𝑛−𝑓 votes for 𝑏, each signed
by a different processor. We note that, since an L-notarisation is a larger set of votes than an
M-notarisation, if 𝑝𝑖 has received an L-notarisation for 𝑏, then it has necessarily received an
M-notarisation for𝑏.
Nullify(𝑣) messages. For𝑣∈N ≥1, a nullify(𝑣)message is of the form(nullify, 𝑣).
10Of course, leaders can also be randomly selected, if given an appropriate source of common randomness.

--- PAGE 9 ---
Chou et al.9
Nullifications. Anullificationfor view 𝑣 is a set of2 𝑓+ 1nullify (𝑣) messages, each signed by a
different processor. (By anullification, we mean a nullification for some view.)
The local variableS. This variable is maintained locally by each processor𝑝𝑖 and stores all messages
received. It is considered to be automatically updated, i.e., we do not give explicit instructions in
the pseudocode updating S. We say a set of messages 𝑀 ′ iscontained in S if 𝑀 ′ ⊆S . We also regard
S as containing a block 𝑏 whenever S contains any message (tuple) with 𝑏 as one of its entries.
Initially,Scontains only𝑏 gen and an L-notarisation (and an M-notarisation) for𝑏 gen.
The local variablev. Initially set to 1, this variable specifies the present view of a processor.
The local timer T. Each processor 𝑝𝑖 maintains a local timer T, which is initially set to 0 and
increments in real-time. (Processors will be explicitly instructed to reset their timer to 0 upon
entering a new view.)
The local variablesnullified,proposed, andnotarised. These are used by𝑝𝑖 to record whether
it has yet sent a nullify(v) message, whether it has yet proposed a block for view 𝑣, and the block
it has voted for in the present view: nullified and proposed are initially set to false, while
notarised is initially set to ⊥ (a default value different than any block). These values will be
explicitly reset upon entering a new view.
The functionSelectParent (S,v) . This function is used by the leader of a view, 𝑝𝑖 say, to select the
parent block to build on. If 𝑣 ′ <v is the greatest view11 such that S contains an M-notarisation for
some𝑏with𝑏.view=𝑣 ′, and if𝑏is the lexicographically least such block, the function outputs𝑏.
The procedureProposeChild (𝑏, 𝑣). This procedure is executed by the leader 𝑝𝑖 of view 𝑣 to
determine a new block. To execute the procedure,𝑝 𝑖:
• Forms a sequence of distinct transactions Tr, containing all transactions received by 𝑝𝑖 and
not included in𝑏 ′.Tr for any𝑏 ′ ∈Swhich is an ancestor of𝑏, and;
•Disseminates the block(𝑣,Tr, 𝐻(𝑏)).
WhenScontains a valid proposal for view𝑣. This condition is satisfied whenScontains:
(i) Precisely one block𝑏of the form𝑏=(𝑣,Tr, ℎ)signed bylead(𝑣);
(ii) An M-notarisation for some𝑏 ′ with𝐻(𝑏 ′)=ℎ, and with𝑏 ′.view=𝑣 ′ (say), and;
(iii) A nullification for each view in the open interval(𝑣 ′, 𝑣).
When (i)–(iii) are satisfied w.r.t.𝑏, we sayScontains a valid proposal𝑏for view𝑣.
New nullifications and notarisations. Processors will be required to forward on all newly
received nullifications and M-notarisations. To make this precise, we must specify what is to count
as a ‘new’ nullification/notarisation. At timeslot𝑡, 𝑝𝑖 regards a nullification 𝑁⊆S for some view 𝑣
(not necessarily equal tov) asnewif:
•S(as locally defined) did not contain a nullification for view𝑣at any smaller timeslot, and;
•𝑁is lexicographically least amongst nullifications for view𝑣contained inS.
At timeslot𝑡,𝑝 𝑖 regards an𝑀-notarisation𝑄⊆Sfor block𝑏asnew 12 if:
•Sdid not contain an M-notarisation for𝑏at any smaller timeslot, and;
•𝑄is lexicographically least amongst M-notarisations for𝑏contained inS.
11There must exist such a view, sinceSalways contains an M-notarisation for the genesis block.
12Since it is not necessary for liveness, our pseudocode does not require processors to forward L-notarisations. One could
also require processors to forward L-notarisations, and the proofs of Section 5 would go through unchanged.

--- PAGE 10 ---
Chou et al.10
For ease of reference, message types and local variables are displayed in Tables 1 and 2. The
pseudocode appears in Algorithm 1.
Message type Description
𝑏gen The tuple(0, 𝜆, 𝜆), where𝜆is the empty string
block𝑏≠𝑏 gen A tuple(𝑣,Tr, ℎ), signed bylead(𝑣)
vote for𝑏 A message(vote, 𝑏)
nullify(𝑣) A message of the form(nullify, 𝑣)
nullification for𝑣 A set of2𝑓+1nullify(𝑣)messages, each signed by a different processor
M-notarisation for𝑏 A set of2𝑓+1votes for𝑏, each signed by a different processor
L-notarisation for𝑏 A set of𝑛−𝑓votes for𝑏, each signed by a different processor
Table 1. Messages
Variable Description
v Initially 1, specifies the present view
T Initially 0, a local timer reset upon entering each view
nullified Initially false, specifies whether already sent nullify(v)message
proposed Initially false, specifies whether already proposed a block for view𝑣
notarised Initially set to⊥, records block voted for in present view
S Records all received messages, automatically updated
Initially contains only𝑏 gen and M/L-notarisations for𝑏 gen
Table 2. Local variables
5 Protocol Analysis
5.1 Consistency
We say block 𝑏 receivesan M-notarisation if 𝑏=𝑏 gen or at least2 𝑓+ 1processors send votes for 𝑏.
Similarly, we say 𝑏 receives an L-notarisation if 𝑏=𝑏 gen or at least 𝑛−𝑓 processors send votes for
𝑏. View𝑣receives a nullification if at least2𝑓+1processors send nullify(𝑣)messages.
Lemma 5.1 (One vote per view).Correct processors vote for at most one block in each view, i.e., if
𝑝𝑖 is correct then, for each 𝑣∈N ≥1, there exists at most one 𝑏 with 𝑏.view=𝑣 such that 𝑝𝑖 sends a
message(vote, 𝑏).
Proof. Recall that ⊥ is a default value, different than any block. Each correct processor’s local
value notarised is initially set to ⊥, and is also set to ⊥ upon entering any view (lines 17 and 21).
A correct processor 𝑝𝑖 will only vote for a block ifnotarised=⊥ (lines 10 and 20). The claim of
the lemma holds because, upon voting for any block 𝑏, 𝑝𝑖 either sets notarised :=𝑏 (line 11) and
then does not redefine this value until entering the next view, or else immediately enters the next
view (lines 20 and 21).□
Lemma 5.2 ((X1) is satisfied).If 𝑏 receives an L-notarisation, then no block 𝑏′ ≠𝑏 with 𝑏′.view=
𝑏.view receives an M-notarisation.

--- PAGE 11 ---
Chou et al.11
Algorithm 1: the instructions for𝑝 𝑖
1:At every timeslot𝑡:
2:Disseminate new nullifications inS;⊲‘new’ as defined in Section 4
3:Disseminate new M-notarisations inS;
4:
5:If𝑝 𝑖 =lead(v)andproposed=false:
6:ProposeChild(SelectParent(S,v),v);⊲Send out a new block
7:Setproposed:=true;
8:
9:IfScontains a valid proposal𝑏for viewv:⊲As defined in Section 4
10:Ifnotarised=⊥andnullified=false:
11:Setnotarised:=𝑏and disseminate(vote, 𝑏);⊲Send vote
12:
13:IfT=2Δ,nullified=false andnotarised=⊥:
14:Setnullified:=true and disseminate(nullify,v);⊲Send nullify(v)
15:
16:IfScontains a nullification forv:
17:Setv:=v+1,nullified:=false,proposed:=false,notarised:=⊥,T:=0;
18:⊲Go to next view
19:IfScontains an M-notarisation for some𝑏with𝑏.view=v:
20:Ifnotarised=⊥andnullified=false, disseminate(vote, 𝑏);⊲Send vote
21:Setv:=v+1,nullified:=false,proposed:=false,notarised:=⊥,T:=0;
22:⊲Go to next view
23:
24:Ifnullified=false,notarised≠⊥andScontains≥2𝑓+1messages, each signed by a
25:different processor, and each either:
26:(i) A message(nullify,v), or;
27:(ii) Of the form(vote, 𝑏)for some𝑏s.t.𝑏.view=vandnotarised≠𝑏:
28:Setnullified:=true and disseminate(nullify,v);
29:⊲Send nullify(v)message upon proof of no progress forv
30:
31:IfScontains a new L-notarisation for any block𝑏:
32:Finalise𝑏;⊲Finalisation as specified in Section 2
Proof. Given Lemma 5.1, this now follows as in Section 3. Towards a contradiction, suppose
that 𝑏 receives an L-notarisation and that 𝑏′ ≠𝑏 with 𝑏′.view=𝑏.view receives an M-notarisation.
Let 𝑃 be the set of processors that contribute to the L-notarisation for 𝑏, and let 𝑃 ′ be the set of
processors that vote for 𝑏′. Then |𝑃∩𝑃 ′ | ≥ (𝑛−𝑓) + ( 2𝑓+ 1) −𝑛=𝑓+ 1. So, 𝑃∩𝑃 ′ contains a
correct processor, which contradicts Lemma 5.1.□
Lemma 5.3 ((X2) is satisfied).If 𝑏 receives an L-notarisation and 𝑣=𝑏.view , then view 𝑣 does not
receive a nullification.
Proof. Towards a contradiction, suppose 𝑏 receives an L-notarisation, 𝑣=𝑏.view , and view 𝑣
receives a nullification. Let 𝑃 be the correct processors that vote for 𝑏, let 𝑃 ′ =Π\𝑃 , and note
that|𝑃 ′ | ≤2𝑓. Since view𝑣receives a nullification, it follows that some processor in𝑃must send
a nullify(𝑣) message. So, let 𝑡 be the first timeslot at which some processor 𝑝𝑖 ∈𝑃 sends such a
message. Since 𝑝𝑖 cannot send a nullify(𝑣) message upon timeout (lines 13-14), 𝑝𝑖 must send the

--- PAGE 12 ---
Chou et al.12
nullify(𝑣) message at 𝑡 because the conditions of lines 24-27 hold for 𝑝𝑖 at 𝑡, i.e., 𝑝𝑖 must have
received≥2𝑓+1messages, each signed by a different processor, and each of the form:
(i)(nullify, 𝑣), or;
(ii)(vote, 𝑏 ′)for some𝑏 ′ ≠𝑏with𝑏 ′.view=𝑣.
By Lemma 5.1, no processor in 𝑃 sends a message of form (ii). By our choice of 𝑡, no processor in 𝑃
sends a message of form (i) prior to 𝑡. Combined with the fact that |𝑃 ′ | ≤ 2𝑓 , this gives the required
contradiction. □
Lemma 5.4 (Consistency).The protocol satisfies Consistency.
Proof. Towards a contradiction, suppose that two inconsistent blocks,𝑏 and 𝑏′ say, both receive
L-notarisations. Without loss of generality suppose 𝑏.view≤𝑏 ′.view. Set 𝑏1 :=𝑏 and 𝑣1 :=𝑏 1.view.
Then there is aleast𝑣 2 ≥𝑣 1 such that some block𝑏 2 satisfies:
(1)𝑏 2.view=𝑣 2;
(2)𝑏 1 is not an ancestor of𝑏 2, and;
(3)𝑏 2 receives an M-notarisation.
From Lemma 5.2, it follows that 𝑣2 >𝑣 1. According to clause (ii) from the definition of when S
contains a valid proposal for view 𝑣2, correct processors will not vote for 𝑏2 in line 11 until they
receive an M-notarisation for its parent, 𝑏0 say. Correct processors will not vote for 𝑏2 in line 20
until 𝑏2 has already received an M-notarisation, meaning that at least 𝑓+ 1correct processors
must first vote for 𝑏2 via line 11, and 𝑏0 must receive an M-notarisation. By our choice of 𝑣2, it
follows that 𝑏0.view<𝑣 1. This gives a contradiction, because, by clause (iii) from the definition of
a valid proposal for view 𝑣2, correct processors would not vote for 𝑏2 in line 11 without receiving
a nullification for view 𝑣1. By Lemma 5.3, such a nullification cannot exist. So, block 𝑏2 cannot
receive an M-notarisation (and no correct processor votes for𝑏 2 via either line 11 or 20).□
5.2 Liveness
Lemma 5.5 (Progression through views).Every correct processor enters every view𝑣∈N ≥1.
Proof. Towards a contradiction, suppose that some correct processor𝑝𝑖 enters view 𝑣, but never
enters view 𝑣+ 1. Note that correct processors only leave any view 𝑣 ′ upon receiving either a
nullification for the view, or else an M-notarisation for some view𝑣 ′ block. Since correct processors
forward new nullifications and notarisations upon receiving them (lines 2 and 3), the fact that 𝑝𝑖
enters view𝑣but does not leave it means that:
•All correct processors enter view𝑣;
•No correct processor leaves view𝑣.
Each correct processor eventually receives, from at least 𝑛−𝑓 processors, either a vote for
some view 𝑣 block, or a nullify(𝑣) message. If any correct processor receives an M-notarisation
for a view 𝑣 block, then we reach an immediate contradiction. So, suppose otherwise. If 𝑝 𝑗 is a
correct processor that votes for a view 𝑣 block 𝑏, it follows that 𝑝 𝑗 receives messages from at least
(𝑛−𝑓) − (2𝑓)=𝑛−3𝑓≥2𝑓+1processors, each of which is either:
(i) A nullify(𝑣)message, or;
(ii) A vote for a view𝑣block different than𝑏.
So, the conditions of lines 24-27 are eventually satisfied, meaning that𝑝 𝑗 sends a nullify(𝑣) message
(line 28). Any correct processor that does not vote for a view 𝑣 block also sends a nullify (𝑣)
message, so all correct processors send nullify(𝑣) messages. All correct processors therefore receive
a nullification for view𝑣and leave the view (line 17), giving the required contradiction.□

--- PAGE 13 ---
Chou et al.13
Lemma 5.6 (Correct leaders finalise blocks).If 𝑝𝑖 =lead(𝑣) is correct, and if the first correct
processor to enter view 𝑣 does so after GST, then 𝑝𝑖 disseminates a block and that block receives an
L-notarisation.
Proof. Suppose 𝑝𝑖 =lead(𝑣) is correct and that the first correct processor 𝑝 𝑗 to enter view 𝑣
does so at timeslot𝑡≥GST . If 𝑣> 1, processor 𝑝 𝑗 enters view 𝑣 upon receiving either a nullification
for view 𝑣− 1, or else an M-notarisation for some view 𝑣− 1block. Since 𝑝 𝑗 forwards on all new
notarisations and nullifications that it receives (lines 2 and 3), it follows that all correct processors
enter view 𝑣 by 𝑡+Δ (note that this also holds if 𝑣= 1). Processor 𝑝𝑖 therefore disseminates a
new block 𝑏 by 𝑡+Δ , which is received by all processors by 𝑡+ 2Δ. Let 𝑏′ be the parent of 𝑏 and
suppose 𝑏′.view=𝑣 ′. Then 𝑝𝑖 receives an M-notarisation for 𝑏′ by 𝑡+Δ . Since 𝑝𝑖 forwards on all
new notarisations that it receives (line 3), all correct processors receive an M-notarisation for 𝑏′
by 𝑡+ 2Δ. Since 𝑝𝑖 has entered view 𝑣, it must also have received nullifications for all views in
the open interval (𝑣 ′, 𝑣) by 𝑡+Δ , and all correct processors receive these by 𝑡+ 2Δ. All correct
processors therefore vote for 𝑏 (by either line 11 or 20) 13 before any correct processor sends a
nullify(𝑣)message. The block𝑏therefore receives an L-notarisation, as claimed.□
Lemma 5.7 (Liveness).The protocol satisfies Liveness.
Proof. Suppose correct 𝑝𝑖 receives the transactiontr. Let 𝑣 be a view withlead(𝑣)=𝑝 𝑖 and such
that the first correct processor to enter view𝑣 does so after GST. By Lemma 5.6,𝑝𝑖 will send a block
𝑏 to all processors, and 𝑏 will receive an L-notarisation. From the definition of the ProposeChild
procedure, it follows that tr will be included in 𝑏′.Tr for some ancestor 𝑏′ of 𝑏, and all correct
processors will add tr to their log upon receiving all ancestors of𝑏 (see the final paragraph of Section
2). Correct processors only vote for blocks whose parent has already received an M-notarisation.
All ancestors of 𝑏′ of 𝑏 must therefore receive M-notarisations, meaning that at least 𝑓+ 1correct
processors disseminate each such𝑏 ′, and correct processors receive all ancestors of𝑏.□
5.3 Optimistic responsiveness
Let 𝛿≤Δ be theactual(unknown) least upper bound on message delay after GST, and let 𝑓𝑎 ≤𝑓
be the actual (unknown) number of Byzantine processors. If a transaction tr is first received by a
correct processor at time 𝑡, and is first finalised by all correct processors (i.e., appended to log𝑖 for
every correct 𝑝𝑖) at time 𝑡+ℓ , then we saylatency for tr is ℓ. We say a protocol isoptimistically
responsiveif latency is 𝑂(𝑓 𝑎Δ+𝛿) for all transactions that are first received by any correct processor
after GST: in particular, this means latency after GST is 𝑂(𝛿) when processors act correctly. In
this section we show that Minimmit is optimistically responsive. In fact, it satisfies the stronger
condition that latency after GST is𝑂(𝛿)whenleadersact correctly. 14
Lemma 5.8.Suppose lead(𝑣) is correct and that the first correct processor to enter view 𝑣 does so at
𝑡≥GST. Then all correct processors leave view𝑣and finalise a view𝑣block by𝑡+𝑂(𝛿).
Proof. Proving the claim of the lemma just involves reviewing the proof of Lemma 5.6 and
observing that the leader’s block will actually be finalised by all correct processors within time
𝑂(𝛿)of any correct processor entering the view.
As before, suppose first 𝑝𝑖 =lead(𝑣) is correct and that the first correct processor to enter
view 𝑣 does so at timeslot 𝑡≥GST . Since correct processors forward on all new notarisations
13The point of line 20 is to ensure this part of the proof goes through. As noted in Section 3, without it, there is the possibility
that correct processors move to the next view upon seeing an M-notarisation, before they are able to vote via line 11, thereby
failing to guarantee an L-notarisation.
14Since the notion of leaders is protocol specific, we prefer to use the more general definition as stated, but the stronger
result also follows directly from the proofs given in this section.

--- PAGE 14 ---
Chou et al.14
and nullifications that they receive, it follows that all correct processors enter view 𝑣 by 𝑡+𝛿 .
Processor 𝑝𝑖 therefore disseminates a new block 𝑏 by 𝑡+𝛿 , which is received by all processors by
𝑡+ 2𝛿. Let 𝑏′ be the parent of 𝑏 and suppose 𝑏′.view=𝑣 ′. Then, from the definition of the function
SelectParent, it follows that 𝑝𝑖 receives an M-notarisation for 𝑏′ by 𝑡+𝛿 . Since 𝑝𝑖 forwards on all
new notarisations that it receives (line 3), all correct processors receive an M-notarisation for 𝑏′ by
𝑡+ 2𝛿. Since 𝑝𝑖 has entered view 𝑣, it must also have received nullifications for all views in the open
interval (𝑣 ′, 𝑣) by 𝑡+𝛿 , and all correct processors receive these by 𝑡+ 2𝛿. All correct processors
therefore vote for 𝑏 (by either line 11 or 20) by 𝑡+ 2𝛿, and before any correct processor sends a
nullify(𝑣) message. All correct processors therefore receive 𝑏 together with an L-notarisation (and
an M-notarisation) for 𝑏 by 𝑡+ 3𝛿, and also leave view 𝑣 by this time. This establishes the claim of
the lemma. □
Lemma 5.9.Suppose the first correct processor to enter view𝑣does so at𝑡≥GST. Then, whether or
notlead(𝑣)is correct, all correct processors leave view𝑣by𝑡+𝑂(Δ).
Proof. Suppose the first correct processor to enter view 𝑣 does so at 𝑡≥ GST. Towards a
contradiction, suppose some correct processor does not leave view 𝑣 by 𝑡+ 2Δ+ 3𝛿. As before, it
follows that all correct processors enter view𝑣 by 𝑡+𝛿 . By timeslot 𝑡+𝛿+ 2Δ, all correct processors
have either voted for some view 𝑣 block, or else sent a nullify(𝑣) message. If any correct processor
receives an M-notarisation for a view 𝑣 block by 𝑡+ 2Δ+ 2𝛿, then it forwards it on to all processors.
This means all correct processors leave the view by 𝑡+ 2Δ+ 3𝛿, giving an immediate contradiction.
So, suppose otherwise. If 𝑝 𝑗 is a correct processor that votes for a view 𝑣 block 𝑏, it follows that, by
𝑡+ 2Δ+ 2𝛿, 𝑝 𝑗 receives messages from at least (𝑛−𝑓) − ( 2𝑓)=𝑛− 3𝑓≥ 2𝑓+ 1processors, each of
which is either:
(i) A nullify(𝑣)message, or;
(ii) A vote for a view𝑣block different than𝑏.
So, the conditions of lines 24-27 are satisfied at this time, meaning that𝑝 𝑗 sends a nullify(𝑣) message
(line 28). Any correct processor that does not vote for a view𝑣 block also sends a nullify(𝑣) message
by this time. So, all correct processors receive a nullification for view 𝑣 by 𝑡+ 2Δ+ 3𝛿, giving the
required contradiction.□
Lemma 5.10.Minimmit is optimistically responsive.
Proof. Suppose tr is first received by a correct processor at 𝑡≥ GST. Since we assume correct
processors send new transactions to all other processors upon first receiving them,tr is received by
all correct processors by 𝑡+𝛿 . Let 𝑣0 be the greatest view that any correct processor is in at 𝑡+𝛿 ,
and let𝑣 1 be the least view>𝑣 0 such thatlead(𝑣)is correct. From Lemmas 5.8 and 5.9, it follows
that all correct processors enter view 𝑣1 by time 𝑡+𝑂(𝑓 𝑎Δ+𝛿) , and that all correct processors
also finalise a view 𝑣1 block, 𝑏 say, by 𝑡+𝑂(𝑓 𝑎Δ+𝛿) . According to the definition of the procedure
ProposeChild(𝑏, 𝑣), tr will be included in an ancestor of𝑏. Since all ancestors of𝑏′ of 𝑏 must receive
M-notarisations prior tolead(𝑣) proposing 𝑏, at least 𝑓+ 1correct processors send each such 𝑏′
to all processors, and correct processors receive all ancestors of 𝑏 by 𝑡+𝑂(𝑓 𝑎Δ+𝛿) . All correct
processors therefore finalise tr by time𝑡+𝑂(𝑓 𝑎Δ+𝛿).□
6 Optimisations
In Section 4, we gave a specification aimed at simplicity. In this section, we describe a number of
possible optimisations.

--- PAGE 15 ---
Chou et al.15
6.1 Progression through views
The specification of Section 4 requires correct processors to progress sequentially through views.
To recover quickly from periods of asynchrony, one can allow a correct processor that is presently
in view 𝑣 ′ to progress immediately to view 𝑣+ 1 >𝑣 ′ upon seeing a nullification for view 𝑣, or an
M-notarisation for view𝑣. This requires the following modifications:
(1) If 𝑣 ′′ <𝑣 and a correct processor 𝑝𝑖 in view 𝑣 receives an M-notarisation for some view 𝑣 ′′
block 𝑏, and if 𝑝𝑖 has not voted for any view 𝑣 ′′ block and has not sent a nullify(𝑣 ′′) message,
then 𝑝𝑖 must vote for𝑏. This is now required to ensure that correct leaders finalise new blocks
after GST, i.e., that a correct leader’s block receives an L-notarisation.
(2) Upon entering view 𝑣, and before running ProposeChild(SelectParent(S, 𝑣), 𝑣) ,lead(𝑣) must
now wait until there exists𝑣 ′′ <𝑣such that it has received:
–An M-notarization for some view𝑣 ′′ block, and;
–Nullifications for all views in(𝑣 ′′, 𝑣).
Lemmas 5.6 and 5.8 still go through with this change in place, since, if the first correct
processor to enter the view does so at 𝑡≥ GST, thenlead(𝑣) will still receive these required
messages by𝑡+𝛿.
With these changes in place, the proofs of Sections 5.1–5.3 go through almost unchanged.
6.2 Reducing the size of votes
In Section 4, votes take the form (vote, 𝑏), and so include the entire block 𝑏. For constant-sized
blocks, this does not affect asymptotic communication complexity. However, when blocks are large,
a standard optimisation is to use votes of the form(vote, 𝐻(𝑏)), containing only the block’s hash.
This optimisation introduces a data availability challenge, which is common to all protocols
using votes that only specify the block’s hash: a Byzantine leader might propose a block 𝑏 that
receives sufficient votes for finalisation, but fail to send 𝑏 itself to all correct processors. Since
correct processors need the actual block content to update their logs, they must have a mechanism
to retrieve missing blocks.
A standard solution exploits the fact that finalisation requires votes from many processors. If
a block is finalised, at least 𝑛−𝑓 processors (including many correct ones) must have received
and voted for it. Correct processors can therefore use a (potentially rate-limited) "pull" mechanism
to retrieve any missing finalised blocks from peers who possess them, ensuring data availability
without relying on potentially Byzantine leaders. An alternative approach, described in Section 6.3,
is to have leaders broadcast blocks using erasure coding techniques.
6.3 Erasure coding
In Minimmit, as in all leader-based protocols, leaders must broadcast potentially large blocks to all
𝑛 processors. With large blocks or high transaction throughput, leader bandwidth can become a
bottleneck, limiting overall system performance. Following approaches used in recent SMR protocols
[18, 30, 31], we can apply erasure coding techniques [4, 9] to distribute the communication load.
The leader encodes each block into 𝑛 fragments such that any 𝑑 fragments suffice to reconstruct
the original block (where𝑑is a parameter, set as required).
As explained in Appendix C, anaiveapproach to the integration of erasure codes causes the
resulting version of Minimmit to have adata expansionrate of 5: If blocks are of size 𝐵, this means
the total amount of block data sent by each leader (to all processors combined) is approximately5 𝐵.
The factor 5 arises because an M-notarisation only suffices to ensure that 𝑓+ 1correct processors
have received their corresponding block fragments, meaning that 𝑓+ 1out of 𝑛 fragments should

--- PAGE 16 ---
Chou et al.16
suffice for block reconstruction. However, in Appendices C-E, we also describe how to integrate
erasure codes with Minimmit to give a data expansion rate of 2.5.
Trade-offs. This optimisation reduces leader bandwidth requirements but adds fragment verifi-
cation overhead. The approach is most beneficial when block sizes are large relative to network
capacity. As noted in Section 6.2, a benefit of the approach is that it ensures correct processors
receive all finalised blocks, without requiring the use of a "pull" mechanism to retrieve any missing
finalised blocks from peers who possess them.
6.4 Threshold signatures and communication complexity
Section 4 assumes correct processors send newly received transactions to all others. In practice,
transactions are typically disseminated through gossip networks, where each processor forwards
transactions to a small constant number of peers. If transactions are constant-bounded in size, this
approach maintains constant communication overhead per processor per transaction. Alternative
dissemination mechanisms like Narwhal [12] can also be employed. In our analysis here, we treat
transaction propagation as a black box and focus on the consensus layer. We assume blocks have
constant-bounded size and, following standard practice, analyse only the communication costs
required for consensus, taking mempool formation as given.
Message complexity. Per view, the protocol requires:
- Leader proposal:𝑂(𝑛)messages.
- Votes:𝑂(𝑛 2)messages (each processor sends≤1vote to all others).
- Nullify messages:𝑂(𝑛 2)messages.
- Forwarding notarisations/nullifications:𝑂(𝑛 2)messages.
Communication complexity. Each notarisation and nullification contains Ω(𝑛) signatures,
resulting in communication complexity greater than 𝑂(𝑛 2) per view. The standard approach of
using threshold signatures [5, 29] can be used to ensure that the communication complexity per
view is𝑂(𝑛 2). We define:
• An ‘M-certificate’ for𝑏 to be threshold signature (of constant-bounded length for a given
security parameter) formed from2𝑓+1votes for𝑏by different processors.
• An ‘N-certificate’ for view𝑣, to be a threshold signature formed from2 𝑓+ 1nullify (𝑣)
messages by different processors.
Threshold signature implemetation details. If 𝑝𝑖 has not already formed or received an M-certificate
for 𝑏, then, upon receipt of2𝑓+ 1votes for 𝑏 by different processors,𝑝𝑖 combines the2 𝑓+ 1signatures
to form an M-certificate (a single threshold signature). Rather than storing and forwarding the
2𝑓+ 1votes, 𝑝𝑖 stores and forwards the M-certificate. Similarly, 𝑝𝑖 stores and sends N-certificates,
rather than storing and sending large collections of nullify(𝑣) messages. Since partial signatures for
any processor can be derived from2 𝑓+ 1partial signatures, we must now stipulate that processors
finalise a block𝑏upon receiving𝑛−𝑓votes for𝑏directly from the corresponding processors.
We note that the pseudocode specified in Algorithm 1 does not require processors to forward
L-notarisations. If one wished to implement threshold signatures also for L-notarisations (requiring
the different threshold 𝑛−𝑓 ), then one would need to establish two separate threshold signature
schemes (two shared secrets), i.e., we require a separate shared secret for each threshold. This also
means that each vote requires two signatures: one corresponding to each threshold. Of course,
these two signatures can be computed/verified in parallel. Verification for the two signatures can
also be transformed into an aggregate signature verification because the two signatures are over
the same message payload.

--- PAGE 17 ---
Chou et al.17
Alternative approaches. We note that some protocols (e.g., Hotstuff [35]) achieve linear com-
munication complexity per view by relaying all messages via the leader. However, this approach
significantly increases the number of communication rounds required, and the leader anyway acts
as a communication bottleneck (e.g., see [24]).
6.5 Compressed nullifications
The problem: nullification build-up during asynchrony. During extended periods of asyn-
chrony, processors may generate nullifications for many consecutive views without being able to
finalise new blocks. When synchrony is restored, correct processors must exchange all accumulated
nullifications before they can vote for new proposals. Since a processor requires nullifications for
all intermediate views between a block’s parent and the current view (see Section 4), this can create
substantial communication overhead.
Solution: nullification aggregation. For signature schemes supporting aggregation (e.g., BLS
[5]), we can compress consecutive nullifications. Given threshold signatures for views in the range
[𝑣, 𝑣 ′], we aggregate them into a single signature𝜎of constant size and send the tuple(𝑣, 𝑣 ′, 𝜎).
Verification. Aggregate signature verification requires specifying the message sequence and
corresponding public keys. Here, the message sequence is implicitly defined by the view range
[𝑣, 𝑣 ′], and each nullification uses the same shared public key from the threshold scheme.
7 Experiments
We test Minimmit against Simplex [11] and Kudzu [31] using a deterministic simulator that executes
protocol specifications on configurable network topologies. The simulator implementation and
experiment configurations are released under both MIT and Apache-2 licenses.15 A step-by-step
guide for recreating every experiment appears in Appendix A.
Protocol selection. Simplex introduced state-of-the-art transaction latency among 3-round finality
protocols. Its design inspired Minimmit: both protocols decouple view iteration from finalisation,
shrinking the worst-case delay before a transaction is included in a block. This structural similarity
makes it a natural baseline against which to quantity the impact of Minimmit’s relaxed Byzantine
fault tolerance.
Kudzu (and the similarly constructed Alpenglow [18]) recently delivered state-of-the-art transac-
tion latency for 2-round finality protocols by concurrently evaluating fast and slow paths. Unlike
Alpenglow, which incorporates a scheme for disseminating erasure-coded block data during fixed
400ms slots16, Kudzu is responsive and serves as a better candidate for comparison to Minimmit.
We defer a comprehensive comparison to Alpenglow’s block dissemination to future work.
Simulation procedure. Each simulation iteration designates a leader and treats the remaining
processors as replicas. The leader initiates the view by broadcasting a payload of configurable
size to all replicas. Replicas process received payloads after at most a configurable number of
pending messages and broadcast their own protocol-specific messages. The simulator records
the time at which each processor reaches salient protocol milestones and reports the mean and
standard deviation over all processors. Because the runtime is deterministic, these measurements
are reproducible by re-running the same command.17
15https://github.com/commonwarexyz/monorepo/tree/19f19d32760daf1d497295726ec92a1e6b84959f/examples/estimator
16A processor in Votor will not cast a vote for some block until it has recovered the entire block from Rotor.
17https://github.com/commonwarexyz/monorepo/tree/19f19d32760daf1d497295726ec92a1e6b84959f/runtime/src/
deterministic.rs

--- PAGE 18 ---
Chou et al.18
Latency and bandwidth model. For every message transmission we sample a delay from a
normal distribution with mean equal to the p5018 AWS inter-region latency and standard deviation
(p90−p50) .19 Each processor has symmetric 1 Gbps (125,000,000 B/s) ingress and egress budgets,
so message delivery time is the sum of the sampled network delay and the bandwidth-limited trans-
mission time. We assume linear bandwidth usage and max-min fairness for bandwidth allocation,
yielding conservative latency estimates. In practice, burstable bandwidth and traffic prioritisation
provided by cloud operators would only decrease the reported latencies.
Uniform global deployment. We place 50 processors uniformly across ten AWS regions (us-
west-1, us-east-1, eu-west-1, ap-northeast-1, eu-north-1, ap-south-1, sa-east-1, eu-central-1, ap-
northeast-2, ap-southeast-2) and enable the “reducing the size of votes” optimisation from Section
6.2 for all protocols, so that the leader distributes full blocks (i.e. no erasure coding) while replicas
vote on digests. We assume instantaneous block production and begin broadcasting at time 𝑡= 0.
Table 3 summarises the resulting latency when proposing 32 KB blocks, the block size at which
Minimmit processes 1,000 transactions per second20 in this configuration.
Table 3. Uniform global deployment (50 processors, symmetric 1 Gbps links).
Protocol View Latency Block Latency Transaction Latency
Simplex 194.61±30.34ms 299.34±25.98ms 493.95±7.50ms
Kudzu 189.94±29.32ms 220.31±28.58ms 410.25±7.61ms
Minimmit 146.07±21.33ms 220.3±28.57ms 366.37±7.06ms
Minimmit reduces transaction latency by 25.8% relative to Simplex and by 10.7% relative to
Kudzu. The improvement stems from Minimmit’s ability to progress views after collecting2𝑓+ 1
votes.
Region-centric deployment. We next cluster 25 processors in the United States (13 in us-west-1
and 12 in us-east-1) and place the remaining 25 uniformly across the other eight regions. Table 4
reports the resulting latencies for the same 32 KB blocks, increasing Minimmit’s effective processing
rate from 1,000 to 1,500 transactions per second at a lower transaction latency.
Table 4. Region-centric deployment (50 processors, symmetric 1 Gbps links).
Protocol View Latency Block Latency Transaction Latency
Simplex 149.95±24.58ms 222.32±24.05ms 372.27±6.97ms
Kudzu 139.77±26.17ms 185.16±24.09ms 324.93±7.09ms
Minimmit 104.93±34.71ms 187.67±27.13ms 292.6±7.86ms
Under this regional skew, Minimmit decreases transaction latency by 21.4% relative to Simplex
and by 9.95% relative to Kudzu. Kudzu attains slightly lower block latency because its slow path
races the fast path, and in this topology some leaders complete two rounds gathering3 𝑓+ 1votes
before Minimmit collects𝑛−𝑓votes.
Large blocks. Larger blocks take longer to transmit: broadcasting a 1 MB block to 50 processors
over 1 Gbps links already requires roughly 400 ms of egress latency.21 Table 5 reproduces the global
18https://www.cloudping.co/api/latencies?percentile=p_50&timeframe=1Y
19https://www.cloudping.co/api/latencies?percentile=p_90&timeframe=1Y
20Assumes each transaction is 200 B.
21Recall, we assume bandwidth allocation is max-min fair.

--- PAGE 19 ---
Chou et al.19
deployment with 1 MB blocks, the block size at which Minimmit processes 10,000 transactions per
second22 in this configuration.
Table 5. Uniform global deployment (50 processors, symmetric 1 Gbps links).
Protocol View Latency Block Latency Transaction Latency
Simplex 593.61±30.34ms 698.34±25.98ms 1291.95±7.50ms
Kudzu 588.94±29.32ms 619.31±28.58ms 1208.25±7.61ms
Minimmit 545.07±21.33ms 619.3±28.57ms 1164.37±7.06ms
Introducing a Reed–Solomon erasure coding scheme reduces this bottleneck. We split each
block into 50 fragments, have the leader broadcast a fragment to every processor, and require
replicas to broadcast their fragment to all other processors when casting a vote. The fragment
size is determined by the quorum needed for view progression: Simplex targets3 𝑓+ 1replicas
and therefore transmits 61.72 KB fragments so that any 𝑓+ 1fragments suffice for reconstruction;
E-Minimmit (as described in Appendices B-E targets5 𝑓+ 1replicas and sends 55.19 KB fragments
to ensure2 𝑓+ 1fragments suffice; similarly, Kudzu also targets5 𝑓+ 1replicas and requires 55.19 KB
fragments to guarantee reconstruction from2 𝑓+ 1fragments. Table 6 reports the resulting latencies,
increasing Minimmit’s effective processing rate from 10,000 to around 30,000 transactions per
second at a lower transaction latency.
Table 6. Uniform global deployment with erasure coding (1 MB blocks).
Protocol View Latency Block Latency Transaction Latency
Simplex 230.62±30.33ms 335.36±25.97ms 565.98±7.50ms
Kudzu 220.94±29.33ms 251.29±28.63ms 472.23±7.61ms
Minimmit 177.06±21.45ms 251.29±28.63ms 428.35±7.08ms
With coding enabled, Minimmit achieves the lowest view latency, block latency and transaction
latency. Minimmitmaximises throughputacross all protocols, since blocks of a fixed size are
produced at a faster rate.
Increasing per processor bandwidth from 1 Gbps to 10 Gbps under this naïve coding scheme,
produces latencies illustrated in Table 7.
Table 7. Uniform global deployment with increased bandwidth and erasure coding (10 Gbps per processor
and 1 MB blocks).
Protocol View Latency Block Latency Transaction Latency
Simplex 186.63±30.35ms 291.33±26.0ms 477.96±7.51ms
Kudzu 181.86±29.31ms 212.3±28.6ms 394.16±7.61ms
Minimmit 138.02±21.37ms 212.3±28.6ms 350.32±7.07ms
Minimmit decreases transaction latency by 26.7% relative to Simplex and 11.1% relative to Kudzu,
and also decreases view latency by 26.0% relative to Simplex and 24.1% relative to Kudzu.
22Assumes each transaction is 200 B.

--- PAGE 20 ---
Chou et al.20
8 Related work
Classical Byzantine Consensus. The study of protocols for reaching consensus in the presence
of Byzantine faults was introduced by Lamport, Shostak, and Pease [ 22]. Dwork, Lynch and
Stockmeyer [13] showed that 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 1is optimal for partial synchrony. Standard protocols using
the assumption 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 1, such as PBFT [10] and Tendermint [7, 8], satisfy 3-round finality. As
shown by [3], this is optimal.
Optimistic Responsiveness. While many standard protocols, such as PBFT, satisfy forms of
optimistic responsiveness, a specific form of the concept was first discussed in [ 28]. Optimistic
responsiveness has been further studied in a number of papers (e.g., [2, 35]) and can be defined in a
number of ways [23, 25, 35].
Fast-Path Approaches. A long line of work [6, 15, 16, 20, 27, 33] considers protocols with a ‘fast
path’, which allows for quick termination/finalisation in certain ‘good’ scenarios. Kursawe [20]
describes an agreement protocol that runs with3 𝑓+ 1processors, but is able to commit in two
steps when all processes act correctly and the network is synchronous, falling back to a randomised
asynchronous consensus protocol otherwise. FaB [27] extends Kursawe’s approach by more closely
integrating the fast path and the fall-back mechanism (the ‘slow path’), and by introducing a
parameterised model with 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1processors. Fast termination is achieved, so long as at
most 𝑝 processors are Byzantine. Unfortunately, the protocol suffers from a liveness bug [1]. FaB
also gives a proof that the assumed bound 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 2𝑝+ 1is tight. However, it was pointed out in
[21] and [3] that the proof only applies to a specific form of protocol. Kuznetsov et al. [21] show
that, in fact, the bound 𝑛≥ 3𝑓+ 2𝑝− 1is optimal. Zyzzyva [ 19] also builds on FaB by (similarly)
integrating the fast and slow paths, and by describing an SMR protocol, rather than a protocol
for one-shot consensus. As pointed out in [1], the view-change mechanism in Zyzzyva does not
guarantee safety when leaders are faulty. SBFT [17] also builds on the ideas introduced in FaB in
order to allow the fast path to tolerate a small number of crash failures.
Modern 2-Round Protocols. Alpenglow [ 18] is formally analysed under the assumption that
𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1. The paper also considers circumstances in which the protocol can tolerate a further
𝑓 crash failures, but the required assumptions for this case (essentially that Byzantine leaders
cannot carry out a form of proposal equivocation) do not hold under partial synchrony. Banyan [34]
carries out the fast path in parallel with the slow path mechanism, but can suffer from unbounded
message complexity with faulty leaders. Kudzu (like FaB) makes the more general assumption that
𝑛≥3𝑓+2𝑝+1for a tunable parameter𝑝. Kudzu and Alpenglow also describe the use of erasure
coding techniques to allow for significantly improved maximum throughput (such techniques were
also employed by SMR protocols in earlier papers, such as [30]).
Compared to Minimmit, Alpenglow, and Kudzu, Hydrangea has improved resilience to crash
failures. For a parameter 𝑘≥ 0, and for a system of 𝑛= 3𝑓+ 2𝑐+𝑘+ 1processors, Hydrangea
achieves 2-round finality, so long as the number of faulty processors (Byzantine or crash) is at
most 𝑝=⌊ 𝑐+𝑘
2 ⌋. In the case that 𝑐= 0, this aligns precisely with the bounds provided by Kudzu.
However, in more adversarial settings with up to 𝑓 Byzantine faults and 𝑐 crash faults, Hydrangea
also obtains finality after two rounds of voting.
As for Minimmit, ChonkyBFT [14] assumes 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1and employs a single round of voting,
but does not have Minimmit’s mechanism for fast view progression.
Positioning of Minimmit. Minimmit assumes 𝑛≥ 5𝑓+ 1and achieves 2-round finality. The
advantage of Minimmit over all previous approaches to 2-round finality is its fast view change
mechanism, which, as described in Sections 1 and 7, allows for decreased view and transaction

--- PAGE 21 ---
Chou et al.21
latency. While subjective, we also believe that the simplicity of the protocol will make it attractive
to practitioners.
9 Final comments
We have presented Minimmit, a Byzantine fault-tolerant SMR protocol that achieves reduced
transaction latency through a novel view-change mechanism. By decoupling view progression from
transaction finality—requiring only2 𝑓+ 1votes for view changes while requiring 𝑛−𝑓 votes for
finalisation—Minimmit demonstrates that significant latency improvements are possible without
sacrificing safety or liveness guarantees.
Our experimental evaluation shows an approximately 23% reduction in view latency and an
11% reduction in transaction latency compared to existing approaches, achieved through faster
view progression in geographically distributed networks. The protocol’s simplicity, requiring no
complex slow-path mechanisms, may facilitate practical adoption in systems where low latency is
critical.
10 Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Ittai Abraham, Benjamin Chan, Denis Kolegov, Ling Ren, and Victor Shoup
for helpful conversations.
References
[1] Ittai Abraham, Guy Gueta, Dahlia Malkhi, Lorenzo Alvisi, Rama Kotla, and Jean-Philippe Martin. 2017. Revisiting fast
practical byzantine fault tolerance.arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.01367(2017).
[2] Ittai Abraham, Dahlia Malkhi, Kartik Nayak, Ling Ren, and Maofan Yin. 2020. Sync hotstuff: Simple and practical
synchronous state machine replication. In2020 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE, 106–118.
[3] Ittai Abraham, Kartik Nayak, Ling Ren, and Zhuolun Xiang. 2021. Good-case latency of byzantine broadcast: A
complete categorization. InProceedings of the 2021 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing. 331–341.
[4] Nicolas Alhaddad, Sisi Duan, Mayank Varia, and Haibin Zhang. 2021. Succinct erasure coding proof systems.Cryptology
ePrint Archive(2021).
[5] Dan Boneh, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. 2001. Short signatures from the Weil pairing. InInternational conference
on the theory and application of cryptology and information security. Springer, 514–532.
[6] Francisco Brasileiro, Fabíola Greve, Achour Mostéfaoui, and Michel Raynal. 2001. Consensus in one communication
step. InInternational Conference on Parallel Computing Technologies. Springer, 42–50.
[7] Ethan Buchman. 2016.Tendermint: Byzantine fault tolerance in the age of blockchains. Ph. D. Dissertation.
[8] Ethan Buchman, Jae Kwon, and Zarko Milosevic. 2018. The latest gossip on BFT consensus.arXiv preprint
arXiv:1807.04938(2018).
[9] Christian Cachin and Stefano Tessaro. 2005. Asynchronous verifiable information dispersal. In24th IEEE Symposium
on Reliable Distributed Systems (SRDS’05). IEEE, 191–201.
[10] Miguel Castro, Barbara Liskov, et al. 1999. Practical byzantine fault tolerance. InOsDI, Vol. 99. 173–186.
[11] Benjamin Y Chan and Rafael Pass. 2023. Simplex consensus: A simple and fast consensus protocol. InTheory of
Cryptography Conference. Springer, 452–479.
[12] George Danezis, Lefteris Kokoris-Kogias, Alberto Sonnino, and Alexander Spiegelman. 2022. Narwhal and tusk: a
dag-based mempool and efficient bft consensus. InProceedings of the Seventeenth European Conference on Computer
Systems. 34–50.
[13] Cynthia Dwork, Nancy A. Lynch, and Larry Stockmeyer. 1988. Consensus in the Presence of Partial Synchrony.J.
ACM35, 2 (1988), 288–323.
[14] Bruno França, Denis Kolegov, Igor Konnov, and Grzegorz Prusak. 2025. ChonkyBFT: Consensus Protocol of ZKsync.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.15380(2025).
[15] Roy Friedman, Achour Mostefaoui, and Michel Raynal. 2005. Simple and efficient oracle-based consensus protocols for
asynchronous Byzantine systems.IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing2, 1 (2005), 46–56.
[16] Rachid Guerraoui and Marko Vukolić. 2007. Refined quorum systems. InProceedings of the twenty-sixth annual ACM
symposium on Principles of distributed computing. 119–128.
[17] Guy Golan Gueta, Ittai Abraham, Shelly Grossman, Dahlia Malkhi, Benny Pinkas, Michael Reiter, Dragos-Adrian
Seredinschi, Orr Tamir, and Alin Tomescu. 2019. SBFT: A scalable and decentralized trust infrastructure. In2019 49th

--- PAGE 22 ---
Chou et al.22
Annual IEEE/IFIP international conference on dependable systems and networks (DSN). IEEE, 568–580.
[18] Quentin Kniep, Jakub Sliwinski, and Roger Wattenhofer. 2025. Solana Alpenglow Consensus.https:// www.scribd.com/
document/ 895233790/ Solana-Alpenglow-White-Paper(2025).
[19] Ramakrishna Kotla, Lorenzo Alvisi, Mike Dahlin, Allen Clement, and Edmund Wong. 2007. Zyzzyva: speculative
byzantine fault tolerance. InProceedings of twenty-first ACM SIGOPS symposium on Operating systems principles. 45–58.
[20] Klaus Kursawe. 2002. Optimistic byzantine agreement. In21st IEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems, 2002.
Proceedings.IEEE, 262–267.
[21] Petr Kuznetsov, Andrei Tonkikh, and Yan X Zhang. 2021. Revisiting optimal resilience of fast byzantine consensus. In
Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing. 343–353.
[22] Leslie Lamport, Robert Shostak, and Marshall Pease. 1982. The Byzantine generals problem.ACM Transactions on
Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS)4, 3 (1982), 382–401.
[23] Andrew Lewis-Pye, Dahlia Malkhi, Oded Naor, and Kartik Nayak. 2024. Lumiere: Making optimal bft for partial
synchrony practical. InProceedings of the 43rd ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing. 135–144.
[24] Andrew Lewis-Pye, Kartik Nayak, and Nibesh Shrestha. 2025. The Pipes Model for Latency Analysis.Cryptology ePrint
Archive(2025).
[25] Andrew Lewis-Pye and Tim Roughgarden. 2023. Permissionless Consensus.arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.14701(2023).
[26] Andrew Lewis-Pye and Tim Roughgarden. 2025. Beyond optimal fault tolerance.arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.06044
(2025).
[27] J-P Martin and Lorenzo Alvisi. 2006. Fast byzantine consensus.IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing
3, 3 (2006), 202–215.
[28] Rafael Pass and Elaine Shi. 2018. Thunderella: Blockchains with optimistic instant confirmation. InAdvances in
Cryptology–EUROCRYPT 2018: 37th Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic
Techniques, Tel A viv, Israel, April 29-May 3, 2018 Proceedings, Part II 37. Springer, 3–33.
[29] Victor Shoup. 2000. Practical threshold signatures. InInternational conference on the theory and applications of
cryptographic techniques. Springer, 207–220.
[30] Victor Shoup. 2023. Sing a song of Simplex.Cryptology ePrint Archive(2023).
[31] Victor Shoup, Jakub Sliwinski, and Yann Vonlanthen. 2025. Kudzu: Fast and Simple High-Throughput BFT.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.08771(2025).
[32] Nibesh Shrestha, Aniket Kate, and Kartik Nayak. 2025. Hydrangea: Optimistic Two-Round Partial Synchrony with
One-Third Fault Resilience.Cryptology ePrint Archive(2025).
[33] Yee Jiun Song and Robbert Van Renesse. 2008. Bosco: One-step byzantine asynchronous consensus. InInternational
Symposium on Distributed Computing. Springer, 438–450.
[34] Yann Vonlanthen, Jakub Sliwinski, Massimo Albarello, and Roger Wattenhofer. 2024. Banyan: Fast rotating leader bft.
InProceedings of the 25th International Middleware Conference. 494–507.
[35] Maofan Yin, Dahlia Malkhi, Michael K Reiter, Guy Golan Gueta, and Ittai Abraham. 2019. HotStuff: BFT consensus
with linearity and responsiveness. InProceedings of the 2019 ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing.
347–356.
A Reproducing Experiments
All experiments were executed with the commonware-estimator23. Each run combines one of the
protocol scripts below with a network distribution. The workflow is:
(1) Save the desired script as<protocol>.lazy.
(2) Invoke commonware-estimator –distribution <distribution> <protocol>.lazyus-
ing one of the configurations listed at the end of this section.
Protocol scripts
The following schedules apply to experiments without erasure coding. Set<proposal_bytes> to
32768for the 32 KB runs and to1048576for the 1 MB runs.
23https://github.com/commonwarexyz/monorepo/tree/19f19d32760daf1d497295726ec92a1e6b84959f/examples/estimator

--- PAGE 23 ---
Chou et al.23
Simplex
# Simplex
propose{0, size=<proposal_bytes>}
wait{0, threshold=1}
broadcast{1, size=40}
wait{1, threshold=67%}
broadcast{2, size=40}
wait{2, threshold=67%}
Kudzu (no coding)
# Kudzu (no coding)
propose{0, size=<proposal_bytes>}
wait{0, threshold=1}
broadcast{1, size=40}
wait{1, threshold=61%}
broadcast{2, size=40}
wait{1, threshold=81%} || wait{2, threshold=61%}
Minimmit
# Minimmit
propose{0, size=<proposal_bytes>}
wait{0, threshold=1}
broadcast{1, size=40}
wait{1, threshold=41%}
wait{1, threshold=81%}
Use the erasure-coded variants below for Section 7’s coded experiments (message sizes already
include shard data).
Simplex (erasure coded)
# Simplex (erasure coded)
propose{0, size=61682}
wait{0, threshold=1}
broadcast{1, size=61722}
wait{1, threshold=67%}
broadcast{2, size=40}
wait{2, threshold=67%}

--- PAGE 24 ---
Chou et al.24
Kudzu (erasure coded)
# Kudzu (erasure coded)
propose{0, size=55190}
wait{0, threshold=1}
broadcast{1, size=55230}
wait{1, threshold=61%}
broadcast{2, size=40}
wait{1, threshold=81%} || wait{2, threshold=61%}
Minimmit (erasure coded)
# Minimmit (erasure coded)
propose{0, size=55190}
wait{0, threshold=1}
broadcast{1, size=55230}
wait{1, threshold=41%}
wait{1, threshold=81%}
Network distributions
Pair the scripts with one of the following network distributions when callingcommonware-estimator.
The Uniform global distribution is reused for both block sizes; only<proposal_bytes>changes.
Uniform global (1 Gbps links)
commonware-estimator --distribution \
us-west-1:5:125000000,us-east-1:5:125000000,\
eu-west-1:5:125000000,ap-northeast-1:5:125000000,\
eu-north-1:5:125000000,ap-south-1:5:125000000,\
sa-east-1:5:125000000,eu-central-1:5:125000000,\
ap-northeast-2:5:125000000,ap-southeast-2:5:125000000 \
<protocol>.lazy
Region-centric (1 Gbps links)
commonware-estimator --distribution \
us-west-1:13:125000000,us-east-1:12:125000000,\
eu-west-1:3:125000000,ap-northeast-1:4:125000000,\
eu-north-1:3:125000000,ap-south-1:3:125000000,\
sa-east-1:3:125000000,eu-central-1:3:125000000,\
ap-northeast-2:3:125000000,ap-southeast-2:3:125000000 \
<protocol>.lazy

--- PAGE 25 ---
Chou et al.25
Uniform global (10 Gbps links)
commonware-estimator --distribution \
us-west-1:5:1250000000,us-east-1:5:1250000000,\
eu-west-1:5:1250000000,ap-northeast-1:5:1250000000,\
eu-north-1:5:1250000000,ap-south-1:5:1250000000,\
sa-east-1:5:1250000000,eu-central-1:5:1250000000,\
ap-northeast-2:5:1250000000,ap-southeast-2:5:1250000000 \
<protocol>.lazy
B Erasure codes: the setup
In this section, we describe the (standard) cryptographic primitives required for Appendices C-E.
Threshold signatures. A 𝑘-of-𝑛 threshold signature scheme allowssignature sharesfrom any 𝑘
processors on a given message to be combined to form acertificateon that message. Forming a
certificate on any message is infeasible given less than 𝑘 signature shares. Such schemes can be
implemented using BLS signatures [5]. We use one threshold signature scheme with𝑘= 2𝑓+ 1,
and another with𝑘=𝑛−𝑓.
Erasure codes. We suppose given an (𝑛, 2𝑓+ 1)-erasure code, which uniquely encodes any bit
string 𝐶 of length 𝛽 as a sequence of 𝑛 fragments, 𝑐1, . . . , 𝑐𝑛, in such a way that any2 𝑓+ 1fragments
and 𝛽 suffice to efficiently reconstruct𝐶. We suppose all fragments have the same size (as a function
of 𝑛, 𝑓 and 𝛽). Reed-Solomon codes can be used to realise an (𝑛, 2𝑓+ 1)-erasure code so that each
fragment has size ≈𝛽/( 2𝑓+ 1). If 𝑛= 5𝑓+ 1, this leads to a data expansion rate of roughly2 .5, i.e.,
the combined size of all𝑛fragments is roughly 2.5𝛽.
Merkle trees. We use Merkle trees in the standard way to allow a processor 𝑝 to commit to a
sequence of values 𝑣1, . . . , 𝑣𝑛. To form the commitment, 𝑝 constructs a full binary tree in which
the leaves are the hashes of 𝑣1, . . . , 𝑣𝑛 and every other node is the hash of its two children. The
commitment is the root of the tree, 𝑟 say. Toopenthe commitment at position 𝑖, 𝑝 specifies 𝑣𝑖 and a
validation path from 𝑟 to 𝑣𝑖 at position 𝑖: the validation path specifies the sibling of each node on
the path from the hash of𝑣 𝑖 at position𝑖to the root.
Encoding, certified fragments, and tags. We use techniques introduced by Cachin and Tessaro [9]
for the purpose ofasynchronous verifiable information dispersal (A VID). These techniques combine
the use of Merkle trees and erasure codes. Given a bit string 𝐶 of length 𝛽, let 𝑐1, . . . , 𝑐𝑛 be the
corresponding fragments produced by our (𝑛, 2𝑓+ 1)-erasure code. Form a Merkle tree whose
leaves are the hashes of 𝑐1, . . . , 𝑐𝑛 and let 𝑟 be the root of this tree. For each 𝑖∈ [𝑛] , let 𝜋𝑖 be a
validation path from𝑟to𝑣 𝑖 at position𝑖. We define thetag𝜏(𝐶):=(𝛽, 𝑟)and set:
Encode(𝐶):=(𝜏(𝐶),{(𝑐 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )}𝑖∈ [𝑛] ).
If 𝑧=(𝛽 ′, 𝑟′) for some 𝛽 ′ ∈N and some hash value 𝑟 ′, we say (𝑐, 𝜋) acertified fragment of 𝑧 at 𝑖 if
both:
•𝑐is of the correct length (given𝑛and𝑓) to be a fragment of a message of length𝛽 ′, and;
•𝜋is a validation path from𝑟 ′ to𝑐at position𝑖.
Decoding. The function Decode takes inputs of the form
(𝑧,{(𝑐 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )}𝑖∈𝐼 ),

--- PAGE 26 ---
Chou et al.26
where 𝑧=(𝛽, 𝑟) for 𝛽∈N , 𝑟 is a hash value, 𝐼⊆ [𝑛] with |𝐼|= 2𝑓+ 1, and each (𝑐𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 ) is a
certified fragment of 𝑧 at 𝑖. It then reconstructs a message 𝐶 of length 𝛽 from the fragments {𝑐𝑖 }𝑖∈𝐼 .
If this reconstruction fails (e.g., due to a formatting error) it outputs ⊥. Otherwise, it computes
𝜏(𝐶)=(𝛽, 𝑟 ′). If𝑟≠𝑟 ′ it outputs⊥, and otherwise outputs𝐶.
C Erasure coding for Minimmit: the intuition
In this section, we discuss the intuition behind the modifications required to describe a version of
Minimmit, called E-Minimmit, which efficiently integrates the use of erasure codes.
To explain our approach, we first consider a simple (but non-optimal) version, which has a
data-expansion rate of 5, i.e., the total size of all fragments sent out by each leader to all processors
combined is roughly five times the size of a block. The factor of 5 arises because this simple protocol
requires that 𝑓+ 1fragments suffice to reconstruct a block. Then we describe a modified approach
using an(𝑛,2𝑓+1)erasure code, resulting in a data-expansion rate of 2.5.
C.1 A simple (but non-optimal) approach
If one is happy to accept a data-expansion rate of 5, then erasure codes can be integrated with
Minimmit in an entirely standard way, using methods first described in [9]. Since E-Minimmit will
use threshold signatures, we describe an approach that does the same:
• Rather than the leader 𝑝 of view 𝑣 sending the entire block 𝑏 to each processor, it first
separates out thepayload 𝐶 :=𝑏.Tr of the block, i.e., the sequence of transactions associated
with the block.
• It then calculates Encode(𝐶)=(𝜏(𝐶),{(𝑐 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )}𝑖∈ [𝑛] ) (as described in Appendix B, but now
using an(𝑛, 𝑓+1)-erasure code).
• The block 𝑏 itself is now just a tuple (𝑣, 𝜏(𝐶), ℎ) signed by 𝑝, where ℎ is the hash of the parent
of𝑏. We refer to the message(𝑏, 𝑖, 𝑐 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )asthe certified fragment of𝑏at𝑖.
•The leader𝑝then sends each𝑝 𝑖 the certified fragment of𝑏at𝑖.
• Upon checking that this message is well-formed, including verifying 𝜋𝑖 and that the neces-
sary notarisations and nullifications (or the corresponding threshold certificates) have been
received, 𝑝𝑖 then disseminates the certified fragment of 𝑏 at 𝑖 as well as a vote for 𝑏. The vote
for 𝑏 contains 𝑝𝑖’s signature share for both the M-notarisation and L-notarisation threshold
schemes on the message(vote, 𝑏).
• The remaining instructions are largely unchanged, except that, instead of requiring processors
to forward on M-notarisations, we have processors form a certificate (an ‘M-certificate’) from
the signature shares included in votes, using a (2𝑓+ 1)-of-𝑛 threshold signature scheme.
Processors now forward these certificates instead of a set of2 𝑓+ 1votes (and we proceed
similarly for nullifications).
• The factor 5 arises because the existence of an M-certificate only suffices to ensure that
(2𝑓+ 1) −𝑓=𝑓+ 1correct processors have sent their fragments to all processors. So, we
require that𝑓+1fragments suffice for block payload reconstruction.
Next, we describe the intuition behind reducing the data-expansion rate to 2.5.
C.2 Reducing the data-expansion rate to 2.5
To reduce the data-expansion rate, we use an (𝑛, 2𝑓+ 1)-erasure code. This means the existence of
an M-certificate no longer ensures sufficiently many correct processors have disseminated their
fragments to guarantee data-availability for the block payload. Accordingly, we must now allow
transition from view𝑣upon receiving either:
(a) A nullification (or the corresponding certificate) for the view, or;

--- PAGE 27 ---
Chou et al.27
(b) An M-certificate for some view 𝑣 blockandfragments from sufficiently many processors to
reconstruct the block.
With this change in place, there are two further required changes to the protocol:
The sending of others’ fragments (in the bad case).Suppose that 𝑝𝑖 is in view 𝑣 and finds that
(b) above applies with respect to some block 𝑏. Then 𝑝𝑖 should immediately progress to the next
view. However, since𝑝𝑖 may be the leader of some subsequent view (and may propose a block with
parent 𝑏 that it wishes others to vote for), it must also guarantee that other correct processors will
be able to reconstruct the block payload. Since up to 𝑓 of the processors that sent fragments to 𝑝𝑖
may be faulty, this is not necessarily the case. To deal with this issue, we first consider an approach
that leads to large time-outs. Then we consider how to reduce time-outs.
An approach that gives time-outs of8 Δ. One approach 𝑝𝑖 could follow would be to select a set of
𝑓 processors disjoint from those whose fragments 𝑝𝑖 has received, and to send those processors
notification that 𝑝𝑖 can send them their fragment if they have not already received it. This ensures
that3 𝑓+ 1processors have access to their own fragment, so that2 𝑓+ 1correct processors have
access to their own fragment. Data-availability is ensured so long as those correct processors
disseminate their fragment to others.
While this approach would work, it has the downside of significantly increasing the required
time-out for each view. Suppose the first correct processor 𝑝𝑖 to enter view 𝑣 does so at 𝑡≥GST
because they find that (b) above applies w.r.t. some block𝑏1. Suppose lead(𝑣) is correct and that
we wish to ensure they propose a new block that becomes finalised. Then all correct processors,
including lead(𝑣) , will enter the view by 𝑡+ 4Δ: we must wait one Δ for others to receive 𝑝𝑖’s
messages (indicating that it can send required fragments), another Δ for 𝑝𝑖 to receive responses to
those messages, one Δ for 𝑝𝑖 to send the relevant fragments, and then a final Δ for those fragments
to be disseminated. However,lead(𝑣) may enter view 𝑣 just before it receives sufficient fragments
to recover 𝑏1 because (b) above applies w.r.t. a different block𝑏2, and may propose a block 𝑏3 with
𝑏2 as parent. Using the same argument, we can only guarantee that correct processors will be able
to recover 𝑏2 and vote for 𝑏3 by 𝑡+ 8Δ. This would mean time-outs of8 Δ, meaning that crashed
leaders cause significant delays.
An approach with reduced time-outs. We follow an approach that gives significantly reduced time-
outs, while requiring no extra message sending in the case that leaders are correct during synchrony.
The approach uses a parameter 𝑠, which should be set to roughly the expected time between
receiving2 𝑓+ 1votes and receiving3 𝑓+ 1votes when the leader is correct during synchrony.
Generally, this will be some small fraction of Δ. Upon leaving view 𝑣 because it has received an
M-certificate for 𝑏 and successfully decoded the payload, 𝑝𝑖 now sets a timer to expire in time 𝑠.
The intuition is that if the leader was correct during synchrony, 𝑝𝑖 will receive3 𝑓+ 1votes within
time 𝑠, ensuring2 𝑓+ 1correct processors have their fragments—sufficient for data availability.
Only if this threshold is not met does𝑝 𝑖 need to intervene. Once the timer expires, processor𝑝 𝑖:
•Sets𝐼:={𝑗∈ [𝑛]:𝑝 𝑖 has received a certified fragment of𝑏at𝑗from𝑝 𝑗 };
•Sets𝑥:=(3𝑓+1) − |𝐼|, and if𝑥>0then it:
(i) Chooses𝐽⊆ [𝑛]with|𝐽|=𝑥and𝐽∩𝐼=∅;
(ii) For each𝑗∈𝐽, sends𝑝 𝑗 a certified fragment of𝑏at𝑗.
The consequence is that by time𝑠+Δ after 𝑝𝑖 leaves view𝑣 at time𝑡, at least3 𝑓+ 1processors possess
their fragments (if necessary, by 𝑝𝑖’s intervention), guaranteeing that2 𝑓+ 1correct processors
have disseminated their fragments. This ensures all correct processors leave view 𝑣 by 𝑡+ 2Δ+𝑠 .
The same argument as above shows that timeouts can now be set to4Δ+2𝑠.

--- PAGE 28 ---
Chou et al.28
An optimisation reducing timeouts to3 Δ. We will initially formalise a version of E-Minimmit that
ensures every correct leader after GST finalises a new block, and which uses timeouts of4 Δ+ 2𝑠.
However, in Appendix E, we will also describe an optimisation that uses timeouts of3 Δ. The
trade-off is that view 𝑣 is then only guaranteed to produce a new finalised block if view𝑣− 1begins
after GST and the leaders of both views𝑣−1and𝑣are correct.
Late dissemination of one’s own fragment (in the bad case).The protocol described above
ensures data availability through two mechanisms: processors disseminate fragments with their
votes, and processors who leave views early may subsequently send fragments to others. However,
a subtle issue remains. Consider a processor 𝑝 𝑗 that receives a certified fragment of block 𝑏 from
some processor 𝑝𝑖 (via the mechanism described above) after 𝑝 𝑗 has already voted for a different
block in view 𝑣 or after 𝑝 𝑗 has timed out. In this case, 𝑝 𝑗 cannot produce a vote for 𝑏, and therefore
would not automatically disseminate its fragment for𝑏.
To ensure data availability in such scenarios, we require that processors disseminate their own
fragments whenever they hold a fragment for a block with an M-certificate but have not yet
disseminated that fragment. This ensures that2 𝑓+ 1correct processors eventually disseminate
their fragment, guaranteeing data availability.24
C.3 Avoiding the finalisation of junk blocks
We introduce one further modification to address an issue arising from erasure coding: since
processors vote for blocks before decoding their payloads, Byzantine leaders can cause blocks
with invalid payloads to receive L-notarisations. Whilst one could simply finalise such blocks and
subsequently ignore their contents when forming the transaction sequence, we prefer to exclude
them entirely from the finalised chain. We achieve this through a straightforward mechanism.
The key insight is to decouple M-certificates from block inclusion in the finalised chain. We
proceed as follows:
(1) Each processor 𝑝𝑖 maintains a local variable blocks containing the genesis block and all
blocks𝑏satisfying:
(i)𝑝 𝑖 has received (or formed) an M-certificate for𝑏;
(ii)𝑝 𝑖 has received sufficient fragments to decode the payload and verify it is well-formed, and;
(iii) The parent of𝑏belongs toblocks.
(2) Processors advance from view 𝑣 upon receiving either a nullification (or the corresponding
certificate) for view𝑣, or upon finding thatblockscontains a view𝑣block.
(3) Processors finalise only those blocks appearing in (their local copy of) blocks (upon receipt
of L-notarisations or L-certificates).
This approach introduces a liveness concern: if view𝑣 produces a block with an M-certificate but
invalid payload, we must ensure processors can still progress beyond view 𝑣. Since the block never
enters blocks (failing condition (ii)), processors may require a nullification for view 𝑣 to advance.
We address this by requiring processors to issue nullify(𝑣) messages upon decoding a view 𝑣
block with an M-certificate and discovering the payload is invalid. This preserves consistency: the
standard quorum intersection argument establishes that if view 𝑣 produces a block with a valid
payload that achieves finalization, then no alternative view 𝑣 block can receive an M-certificate.
Consequently, no processor will decode a distinct view 𝑣 block, discover it has an invalid payload,
24Note that in executions without Byzantine behaviour, each processor still disseminates its fragment for at most one block
per view. Byzantine leaders can produce slashable behaviour causing some correct processors to disseminate two extra
fragments. This behaviour is ‘slashable’, because it requires the leader to produce more than one block for the same view,
leading to objective proof of Byzantine action (for a formal account of ‘accountability/slashability’ see [26]).

--- PAGE 29 ---
Chou et al.29
and issue a nullify(𝑣) message. This ensures that nullifications for view 𝑣 cannot reach the2 𝑓+ 1
threshold required.
D E-Minimmit: the formal specification
As in Section 4, we say ‘disseminate’ to mean ‘send to all processors’. When a correct processor
is instructed to send a message to itself, it regards that message as immediately received. The
pseudocode uses a number of message types, local variables, functions and procedures, detailed
below. While some of the following definitions are the same as in Section 4, we repeat them here
for ease of reference.
The functionlead(𝑣). As in Section 4, we setlead(𝑣):=𝑝 𝑗+1, where𝑗=𝑣mod𝑛.
Blocks. Recall that 𝜏 is the tag function, as defined in Appendix B. Thegenesis blockis the tuple
𝑏gen :=( 0, 𝜏(𝜆), 𝜆) , where 𝜆 denotes the empty sequence (of length 0). A block other than the
genesis block, with associated payload𝐶, is a tuple𝑏=(𝑣, 𝜏(𝐶), ℎ)signed bylead(𝑣), where:
•𝑣∈N ≥1 is the view corresponding to𝑏;
•𝜏(𝐶)is the tag resulting from𝐶;
•ℎis the hash of𝑏’s parent block.
We write 𝑏.view, 𝑏.tag and 𝑏.par to denote the corresponding entries of 𝑏. If 𝑏.view=𝑣 , we also
refer to 𝑏 as a ‘view𝑣 block’. If(𝑐𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 ) is a certified fragment of 𝜏(𝐶) at 𝑖, we also say that the tuple
(𝑏, 𝑖, 𝑐𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 ) iscertified fragment of 𝑏 at 𝑖: it is a message of this form that a correct leader of view 𝑣
will send to𝑝 𝑖 while in view𝑣.
Votes. Avoteby𝑝 𝑖 ∈Πfor the block𝑏is a message of the form(vote, 𝑏, 𝑖, 𝜌 𝑖, 𝜌′
𝑖 ), where:
•𝜌 𝑖 is a (valid) signature share from𝑝𝑖 on the message (vote, 𝑏), using a (2𝑓+ 1)-of-𝑛 threshold
signature scheme;
•𝜌 ′
𝑖 is a signature share from 𝑝𝑖 on the message (vote, 𝑏), using an (𝑛−𝑓) -of-𝑛 threshold
signature scheme.
Processor 𝑝𝑖 may disseminate a vote for 𝑏 upon receiving a certified fragment of 𝑏 at 𝑖. The vote for
𝑏 by 𝑝𝑖 contains signature shares from 𝑝𝑖 corresponding to (2𝑓+ 1)-of-𝑛 and (𝑛−𝑓) -of-𝑛 threshold
signature schemes. As detailed below, the first of these signature shares can be used to help form
an ‘M-certificate’ for𝑏, while the second can be used to form an ‘L-certificate’ for𝑏.
M-notarisations and certificates. An M-notarisationfor the block 𝑏 is a set of2 𝑓+ 1votes for 𝑏,
each by a different processor in Π. (By an M-notarisation, we mean an M-notarisation for some
block.) An M-certificatefor the block 𝑏 is the message (M-cert, 𝑏, 𝜌), where 𝜌 is a (2𝑓+ 1)-of-𝑛
threshold certificate on the message(vote, 𝑏).
L-notarisations and certificates. AnL-notarisationfor the block 𝑏 is a set of 𝑛−𝑓 votes for
𝑏, each by a different processor in Π. An L-certificatefor the block 𝑏 is the message (L-cert, 𝑏, 𝜌),
where𝜌is an(𝑛−𝑓)-of-𝑛certificate on the message(vote, 𝑏).
Nullify messages and nullifications. For 𝑣∈N ≥1, a nullify (𝑣) message by 𝑝𝑖 is of the form
(nullify, 𝑣, 𝑖, 𝜌𝑖 ), where 𝜌𝑖 is a (valid) signature share from 𝑝𝑖 on the message (nullify, 𝑣), using a
(2𝑓+ 1)-of-𝑛 threshold signature scheme. Anullificationfor view 𝑣 is a set of2 𝑓+ 1nullify (𝑣)
messages, each by a different processor in Π. (By anullification, we mean a nullification for some
view.) AnN-certificatefor view 𝑣 is a message (N-cert, 𝑣, 𝜌) , where 𝜌 is a (2𝑓+ 1)-of-𝑛 certificate
on the message(nullify,𝑣).
The local variablev. Initially set to 1, this variable specifies the present view of a processor.

--- PAGE 30 ---
Chou et al.30
The local variable b. Initially set to 𝑏gen, this variable is used by leaders to choose a parent block.
The local timer T. Each processor 𝑝𝑖 maintains a local timer T, which is initially set to 0 and
increments in real-time. (Processors will be explicitly instructed to reset their timer to 0 upon
entering a new view.)
The local variablecertificates. Initially empty, this local variable for𝑝𝑖 is automatically updated
by 𝑝𝑖 (without explicit instructions in the pseudocode) to contain all M-certificates, L-certificates,
and N-certificates received by 𝑝𝑖. If 𝑝𝑖 receives an M-notarisation, L-notarisation, or a nullification,
then it automatically forms the associated certificate, and adds it tocertificates.
An N-certificate 𝑄 for view 𝑣 is regarded asnewat timeslot 𝑡 if 𝑄∈certificates and
certificates did not contain an N-certificate for view 𝑣 at any timeslot 𝑡 ′ <𝑡 . Similarly, an
M-certificate 𝑄 for 𝑏 is new at timeslot 𝑡 if 𝑄∈certificates and certificates did not contain
an M-certificate for𝑏at any timeslot𝑡 ′ <𝑡.
The local variable blocks. Initially set to {𝑏gen}, this local variable is automatically updated by
𝑝𝑖 (without explicit instructions in the pseudocode). At any timeslot,blocks contains 𝑏gen and all
blocks𝑏such that (i)-(iii) below are all satisfied:
(i)certificatescontains an M-certificate for𝑏;
(ii) There exists 𝐼⊂ [𝑛] with |𝐼|= 2𝑓+ 1such that, for each 𝑗∈𝐼 , 𝑝𝑖 has received (𝑏, 𝑗, 𝑐 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )
from 𝑝 𝑗, which is a certified fragment of 𝑏 at 𝑗. On input (𝑏.tag,{(𝑐 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )} 𝑗∈𝐼 ), Decode does
not output⊥;
(iii) There exists𝑏 ′ ∈blockswith𝐻(𝑏 ′)=𝑏.par, i.e., the parent of𝑏is inblocks.
At timeslot𝑡,𝑏∈blocksis regarded asnewif it was not inblocksat any previous timeslot.
The local timers T(𝑏) . Processor 𝑝𝑖 will leave view 𝑣 upon finding thatblocks contains a view
𝑣 block 𝑏, or else upon finding that certificates contains an N-certificate for view 𝑣. In the
former case, it will not be necessary during ‘standard operation’ for𝑝𝑖 to send out further certified
fragments of 𝑏. However, if the leader of the view is faulty, it may be necessary to do so, so that
other processors can recover the payload associated with𝑏.
To achieve this, we consider a parameter 𝑠, which should be set to roughly the expected time
between receiving2 𝑓+ 1votes for 𝑏 and receiving3 𝑓+ 1votes for 𝑏, during synchrony and if the
leader of the view is correct. Upon putting a new block 𝑏 intoblocks, 𝑝𝑖 triggersa timer T(𝑏) to
expire in time 𝑠. When the timer expires, the pseudocode specifies to which processors 𝑝𝑖 must
send their corresponding certified fragments of𝑏.
The local variablesnullified,proposed, andnotarised. These are used by𝑝𝑖 to record whether
it has yet sent a nullify(v) message, whether it has yet proposed a block for view 𝑣, and the block
it has voted for in the present view: nullified and proposed are initially set to false, while
notarised is initially set to ⊥ (a default value different than any block). These values will be
explicitly reset upon entering a new view.
The procedureProposeBlock. This procedure is executed by the leader 𝑝𝑖 of view 𝑣 to produce
and send out a new block. To execute the procedure,𝑝 𝑖:
• Forms a payload𝐶, containing all received transactions not included the payloads of ancestors
ofb. 25
•Calculates Encode(𝐶):=(𝜏(𝐶),{(𝑐 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )} 𝑗∈ [𝑛] )and sets𝑏:=(𝑣, 𝜏(𝐶), 𝐻(b))signed by𝑝 𝑖.
•For each𝑗∈ [𝑛], sends(𝑏, 𝑗, 𝑐 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )to𝑝 𝑗, i.e., sends the certified fragment of𝑏at𝑗to𝑝 𝑗.
25The protocol ensuresb∈blocks, so that𝑝 𝑖 knows the payload of every ancestor ofb.

--- PAGE 31 ---
Chou et al.31
When 𝑝𝑖 has received a votable fragment for view 𝑣. If 𝑏=(𝑣, 𝜎, ℎ) is a view 𝑣 block signed by
lead(𝑣) and (𝑏, 𝑖, 𝑐𝑖, 𝜏𝑖 ) is a certified fragment of 𝑏 at 𝑖, then 𝑝𝑖 regards this certified fragment as
votable for view𝑣if:
(i) there exists𝑏 ′ ∈blockswith𝐻(𝑏 ′)=ℎ,𝑏 ′.view<𝑣, and;
(ii)certificatescontains an N-certificate for each view in the open interval(𝑏 ′.view, 𝑣).
For ease of reference, local variables are displayed in the table below. The pseudocode appears in
Algorithm 2.
Variable Description
v Initially 1, specifies the present view
b Initially𝑏 gen, used to specify parents
T Initially 0, a local timer reset upon entering each view
T(𝑏) Expires after time𝑠once triggered
nullified Initially false, specifies whether already sent nullify(v)message
proposed Initially false, specifies whether already proposed a block for viewv
notarised Initially set to⊥, records block voted for in present view
certificates Initially empty, records all received certificates
Automatically updated
blocks Initially contains only𝑏 gen, records all blocks with M-certificates
and recovered payloads. Automatically updated
Table 8. Local variables for E-Minimmit
E E-Minimmit: analysis
E.1 Consistency
We say a block 𝑏 receives an M-certificate if some processor receives an M-certificate for𝑏 (and
similarly for L-certificates). View 𝑣 receives an N-certificate if some processor receives an N-
certificate for view 𝑣. The proof of consistency is very similar to that for Minimmit. The only
substantive change is in the proof is the corresponding version of Lemma 5.3.
Lemma E.1 (One vote per view).Correct processors vote for at most one block in each view.
Proof.The proof is the same as for Lemma 5.1.□
Lemma E.2 ((X1) is satisfied).If 𝑏 receives an L-certificate, then no block 𝑏′ ≠𝑏 with 𝑏′.view=
𝑏.view receives an M-certificate.
Proof.The proof is essentially identical to that for Lemma 5.2.□
Lemma E.3 ((X2) is satisfied).If 𝑏 receives an L-certificate and some correct processor finalises 𝑏,
then view𝑣:=𝑏.view does not receive an N-certificate.
Proof. Towards a contradiction, suppose 𝑏 receives an L-certificate and some correct processor
finalises 𝑏, let 𝑣 :=𝑏.view , and suppose view 𝑣 receives an N-certificate. Let 𝑃 be the correct
processors that vote for 𝑏, let 𝑃 ′ =Π\𝑃 , and note that |𝑃 ′ | ≤ 2𝑓 . Since view 𝑣 receives an
N-certificate, it follows that some processor in 𝑃 must send a nullify (𝑣) message. So, let 𝑡 be
the first timeslot at which some processor 𝑝𝑖 ∈𝑃 sends such a message. Since 𝑝𝑖 cannot send a
nullify(𝑣) message upon timeout (lines 14-15), there are two possibilities. The first is that 𝑝𝑖 sends

--- PAGE 32 ---
Chou et al.32
Algorithm 2: the instructions for𝑝 𝑖 at timeslot𝑡
1:At every timeslot𝑡: ⊲MAIN LOOP
2:
3:Disseminate new N-certificates;⊲‘new’ as defined in Section D
4:Disseminate new M-certificates;
5:
6:If𝑝 𝑖 =lead(v)andproposed=false:
7:ProposeBlock; Setproposed:=true;⊲Send out a new block
8:
9:If𝑝 𝑖 has received(𝑏, 𝑖, 𝑐 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )that is votable for viewv:⊲‘votable’ as defined in Section 4
10:Ifnotarised=⊥andnullified=false:
11:Setnotarised:=𝑏and disseminate a vote for𝑏by𝑝 𝑖 ;⊲Send vote
12:Disseminate(𝑏, 𝑖, 𝑐 𝑖, 𝜋𝑖 )if𝑝 𝑖 has not already done so;
13:
14:IfT=4Δ+2𝑠,nullified=false andnotarised=⊥:
15:Setnullified:=true and disseminate a nullify(v)message by𝑝 𝑖 ;⊲Send nullify(v)upon time-out
16:
17:Ifcertificatescontains an N-certificate forv:
18:Setv:=v+1,nullified:=false,proposed:=false,notarised:=⊥,T:=0;⊲Go to next view
19:Ifblockscontains a viewvblock𝑏,
20:Ifnotarised=⊥andnullified=false, disseminate a vote for𝑏by𝑝 𝑖 ;⊲Send vote (akin to line 20 of Algorithm 1)
21:Setb:=𝑏,v:=v+1,nullified:=false,proposed:=false,notarised:=⊥,T:=0;⊲Updateband go to next view
22:
23:Ifcertificatescontains an L-certificate for any non-finalised𝑏∈blocks:
24:Finalise𝑏and all ancestors; ⊲Finalisation
25:⊲EXTRA INSTRUCTIONS TO SEND NULLIFY MESSAGES
26:Ifnullified=false,notarised≠⊥and there exists𝐼⊂ [𝑛]with|𝐼|=2𝑓+1and a set
27:of messages{𝑚 𝑗 } 𝑗∈𝐼 s.t., for each𝑗∈𝐼,𝑚 𝑗 has been received by𝑝 𝑖 and is either:
28:(i) a nullify(v)message by𝑝 𝑗 , or;
29:(ii) a vote by𝑝 𝑗 for some viewvblock𝑏≠notarised:
30:Setnullified:=true; Disseminate a nullify(v)message by𝑝 𝑖 ;
31:⊲Disseminate nullify(v)message upon proof of no progress forv(akin to lines 24-28 of Algorithm 1)
32:
33:Ifnullified=false and there exists a viewvblock𝑏such that:
34:(i)certificatescontains an M-certificate for𝑏.
35:(ii) There exists𝐼⊂ [𝑛]with|𝐼|=2𝑓+1such that, for each𝑗∈𝐼,𝑝 𝑖 has received(𝑏, 𝑗, 𝑐 𝑗 , 𝜋𝑗 )from𝑝 𝑗 , which is a certified
36:fragment of𝑏at𝑗. On input(𝑏.tag,{ (𝑐 𝑗 , 𝜋𝑗 ) }𝑗∈𝐼 ), Decode outputs⊥.
37:Setnullified:=true; Disseminate a nullify(v)message by𝑝 𝑖 ;
38:⊲Disseminate nullify(v)message upon notarisation for junk block (see Section C.3)
39:⊲INSTRUCTIONS TO SEND EXTRA FRAGMENTS IN THE BAD CASE (see Section C.2)
40:For each new𝑏∈blocks:
41:Trigger the timerT(𝑏)to expire in time𝑠;⊲𝑠a parameter
42:
43:For each𝑏such thatT(𝑏)expires at𝑡:
44:Set𝐼:={𝑗∈ [𝑛]:𝑝 𝑖 has received a certified fragment of𝑏at𝑗from𝑝 𝑗 };
45:Set𝑥:=(3𝑓+1) − |𝐼|, and if𝑥>0:
46:Choose𝐽⊆ [𝑛]with|𝐽|=𝑥and𝐽∩𝐼=∅;
47:For each𝑗∈𝐽, send𝑝 𝑗 a certified fragment of𝑏at𝑗;⊲Send others their fragment
48:
49:For any block𝑏s.t.:
50:(i)certificatescontains an M-certificate for𝑏;
51:(ii)𝑝 𝑖 has received a certified fragment of𝑏at𝑖, and;
52:(iii)𝑝 𝑖 has not previously disseminated a certified fragment of𝑏at𝑖:
53:Disseminate a certified fragment of𝑏at𝑖;⊲Send own fragment
the nullify(𝑣) message at 𝑡 because the conditions of lines 26-29 hold for 𝑝𝑖 at 𝑡, i.e., there exists
𝐼⊂ [𝑛] with |𝐼|= 2𝑓+ 1and a set of messages {𝑚𝑗 } 𝑗∈𝐼 s.t., for each 𝑗∈𝐼 , 𝑚 𝑗 has been received by
𝑝𝑖 and is either:
(i) A nullify(𝑣)message by𝑝 𝑗, or;
(ii) A vote by𝑝 𝑗 for some view𝑣block𝑏 ′ ≠𝑏.

--- PAGE 33 ---
Chou et al.33
By Lemma E.1, no processor in 𝑃 sends a message of form (ii). By our choice of 𝑡, no processor in 𝑃
sends a message of form (i) prior to 𝑡. Combined with the fact that |𝑃 ′ | ≤ 2𝑓 , this gives the required
contradiction.
The second possibility is that 𝑝𝑖 sends the nullify (𝑣) message at 𝑡 because the conditions of
lines 33-36 hold for 𝑝𝑖 at 𝑡. The fact that some correct processor adds 𝑏 into their local value
blocks means that Decode does not output ⊥ when given any2 𝑓+ 1certified fragments of 𝑏 as
input. By Lemma E.2, no other block for view 𝑣 receives an M-certificate. This gives the required
contradiction. □
Lemma E.4 (Consistency).The protocol satisfies Consistency.
Proof. Towards a contradiction, suppose some block 𝑏1 with 𝑏1.view=𝑣 1 receives an L-
certificate and is finalised by some correct processor, and that for someleast 𝑣2 ≥𝑣 1 some block 𝑏2
satisfies:
(1)𝑏 2.view=𝑣 2;
(2)𝑏 1 is not an ancestor of𝑏 2, and;
(3)𝑏 2 receives an M-certificate.
From Lemma E.2, it follows that 𝑣2 >𝑣 1. According to clause (i) from the definition of a votable
fragment, correct processors will not vote for 𝑏2 in line 11 until they receive an M-certificate for
its parent, 𝑏0 say. Correct processors will not vote for 𝑏2 in line 20 until 𝑏2 has already received
an M-certificate, meaning that at least 𝑓+ 1correct processors must first vote for 𝑏2 via line 11,
and 𝑏0 must receive an M-certificate. By our choice of 𝑣2, it follows that 𝑏0.view<𝑣 1. This gives a
contradiction, because, by clause (ii) from the definition of a votable fragment for view 𝑣2, correct
processors would not vote for𝑏2 in line 11 without receiving an N-certificate for view𝑣1. By Lemma
E.3, such an N-certificate cannot exist. So, block𝑏2 cannot receive an M-notarisation or M-certificate
(and no correct processor votes for𝑏 2 via either line 11 or 20).□
E.2 Liveness
We letblocks𝑖 be the variableblocks as locally defined for 𝑝𝑖, and letblocks𝑖 (𝑡) be blocks𝑖 as
defined at the end of timeslot𝑡.
Lemma E.5 (Agreement on blocks).If 𝑝𝑖 and 𝑝 𝑗 are correct and 𝑡 is the least timeslot such that
𝑏∈blocks 𝑖 (𝑡), then for𝑡 ′ :=max{𝑡,GST} +2Δ+𝑠,𝑏∈blocks 𝑗 (𝑡 ′).
Proof. The proof is by induction on 𝑏.view. The result holds trivially for 𝑏gen. So, suppose the
conditions in the statement of the lemma hold, 𝑣 :=𝑏.view> 0, and that the claim holds for all
previous views (and so, for the parent of𝑏).
Since 𝑏∈blocks 𝑖 (𝑡) , 𝑝𝑖 receives an M-certificate for 𝑏 by 𝑡, and so disseminates such an M-
certificate by 𝑡 (line 4). It follows that all correct processors receive an M-certificate for 𝑏 by
max{𝑡,GST} +Δ . At 𝑡+𝑠 , 𝑝𝑖 executes lines 43-47 with respect to 𝑏. This ensures that at least
2𝑓+ 1correct processors receive their own certified fragment of 𝑏 (as well as an M-certificate
for 𝑏) by max{𝑡+𝑠,GST} +Δ . Lines 49-53 ensure that those correct processors will disseminate
their fragments by the latter timeslot. All correct processors will therefore receive an M-certificate
and fragments sufficient to decode the payload of 𝑏 by max{𝑡+𝑠,GST} + 2Δ. By the induction
hypothesis, and since the parent of 𝑏 is inblocks𝑖 (𝑡) , it follows that for 𝑡 ′ :=max{𝑡,GST} + 2Δ+𝑠
and for any correct processor𝑝 𝑗,𝑏∈blocks 𝑗 (𝑡 ′)as required.□
Lemma E.6 (Timely view entry).If correct 𝑝𝑖 enters view 𝑣 at 𝑡, then all correct processors enter
view𝑣by𝑡 ′ :=max{𝑡,GST} +2Δ+𝑠.

--- PAGE 34 ---
Chou et al.34
Proof. The proof is by induction on 𝑣. For 𝑣= 1, the claim is immediate. Suppose 𝑣> 1and that
the claim holds for all previous views. Let 𝑝𝑖, 𝑡 and 𝑡 ′ be as in the statement of the lemma. By the
induction hypothesis, it follows that all correct processors enter view𝑣− 1by 𝑡 ′. Processor 𝑝𝑖 either
enters view 𝑣 at 𝑡 upon finding a view 𝑣− 1block in blocks, or upon receiving an N-certificate for
view 𝑣− 1. In the former case, the claim follows by Lemma E.5. In the latter case, the claim follows
because𝑝 𝑖 disseminates the N-certificate at𝑡(line 3).□
Lemma E.7 (Progression through views).Every correct processor enters every view𝑣∈N ≥1.
Proof. Towards a contradiction, suppose that some correct processor𝑝𝑖 enters view 𝑣, but never
enters view𝑣+1. From Lemma E.6, it follows that:
•All correct processors enter view𝑣;
•No correct processor leaves view𝑣.
Each correct processor𝑝 𝑗 disseminates at least one of:
(a) A nullify(𝑣)message;
(b) A vote for some view𝑣block𝑏, together with the certified fragment of𝑏at𝑗.
If there exists a view𝑣 block 𝑏 such that at least2 𝑓+ 1correct processors vote for 𝑏 and disseminate
their corresponding certified fragments of 𝑏, and if Decode does not output ⊥ when given those
fragments as input, then we reach an immediate contradiction. If there exists 𝑏 such that at least
2𝑓+ 1correct processors vote for 𝑏 and disseminate their corresponding certified fragments of 𝑏,
and if Decode outputs ⊥ when given those fragments as input, then we also reach a contradiction:
in this case, all correct processors will send nullify(𝑣) messages (line 37). So, suppose the previous
two cases do not apply. If 𝑝 𝑗 is a correct processor that votes for a view 𝑣 block 𝑏, it follows that 𝑝 𝑗
receives messages from at least (𝑛−𝑓) − ( 2𝑓)=𝑛− 3𝑓≥ 2𝑓+ 1processors, each of which is either:
(i) A nullify(𝑣)message, or;
(ii) A vote for a view𝑣block different than𝑏.
So, the conditions of lines 26-29 are eventually satisfied, meaning that𝑝 𝑗 sends a nullify(𝑣) message
(line 30). Any correct processor that does not vote for a view 𝑣 block also sends a nullify (𝑣)
message, so all correct processors send nullify(𝑣) messages. All correct processors therefore receive
a nullification for view𝑣, giving the required contradiction.□
Lemma E.8 (Correct leaders finalise blocks).If 𝑝𝑖 =lead(𝑣) is correct, and if the first correct
processor to enter view 𝑣 does so after GST, then 𝑝𝑖 disseminates a block that is finalised by all correct
processors.
Proof. Suppose 𝑝𝑖 =lead(𝑣) is correct and that the first correct processor to enter view𝑣 does so
at timeslot 𝑡≥GST . From Lemma E.6, it follows that all correct processors (including𝑝𝑖) enter view
𝑣 by 𝑡+ 2Δ+𝑠 . Processor 𝑝𝑖 therefore disseminates a new block𝑏 by 𝑡+ 2Δ+𝑠 , which is received by all
processors by 𝑡+ 3Δ+𝑠 . Let 𝑏′ be the parent of𝑏 and set 𝑣 ′ :=𝑏 ′.view. Since 𝑏′ ∈blocks 𝑖 (𝑡+ 2Δ+𝑠) ,
it follows from Lemma E.5 that, for every correct𝑝 𝑗, 𝑏′ ∈blocks 𝑗 (𝑡+ 4Δ+ 2𝑠). Since 𝑝𝑖 has entered
view 𝑣 at 𝑡+ 2Δ+𝑠 , it must also have received N-certificates for all views in the open interval
(𝑣 ′, 𝑣) by this time, and all correct processors receive these by 𝑡+ 3Δ+𝑠 . All correct processors
therefore vote for 𝑏 (by either line 11 or 20) by 𝑡+ 4Δ+ 2𝑠, before any correct processor sends a
nullify(𝑣) message. The block 𝑏 therefore receives an L-notarisation and is finalised by all correct
processors, as claimed.□
Lemma E.9 (Liveness).The protocol satisfies Liveness.
Proof. Suppose correct 𝑝𝑖 receives the transactiontr. Let 𝑣 be a view withlead(𝑣)=𝑝 𝑖 and such
that the first correct processor to enter view 𝑣 does so after GST. By Lemma E.8, 𝑝𝑖 will disseminate

--- PAGE 35 ---
Chou et al.35
a block that is finalised by all correct processors. From the definition of the ProposeBlock procedure,
it follows that tr will be included in the payload of an ancestor of 𝑏. It follows that tr is finalised for
all correct processors upon finalisation of𝑏.□
E.3 An optimisation reducing timeouts to3Δ
According to Lemma E.8, every view with a correct leader that begins after GST will produce a
new finalised block if we set timeouts to4 Δ+ 2𝑠. However, we can reduce timeouts with a small
modification to the pseudocode, if we are prepared to accept the trade-off that view 𝑣 is then only
guaranteed to produce a new finalised block if view 𝑣− 1begins after GST and the leaders of both
views𝑣−1and𝑣are correct.
To do so, note first that while processors cannot immediately vote for a view𝑣 block 𝑏 until they
have received sufficiently many certified fragments of the parent 𝑏′ to recover its payload, wecan
allow a correct processor to enumerate the parent 𝑏′ into their local value blocks upon receiving
an M-certificate for the child 𝑏. This is because the existence of an M-certificate for 𝑏 suffices to
ensure𝑓+1correct processors have already enumerated𝑏 ′ into their local valueblocks.
We can therefore modify the way in which a correct processor 𝑝𝑖 defines its local valueblocks
as follows. At any timeslot, blocks contains 𝑏gen and all blocks 𝑏 such that (i)-(iii) below are all
satisfied:
(i)certificatescontains an M-certificate for𝑏.
(ii) Eithercertificatescontains an M-certificate for a child of𝑏or:
(a) There exists 𝐼⊂ [𝑛] with |𝐼|= 2𝑓+ 1such that, for each 𝑗∈𝐼 , 𝑝𝑖 has received (𝑏, 𝑗, 𝑐 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )
from𝑝 𝑗, which is a certified fragment of𝑏at𝑗, and;
(b) On input(𝑏.tag,{(𝑐 𝑗, 𝜋𝑗 )} 𝑗∈𝐼 ), Decode does not output⊥.
(iii) There exists𝑏 ′ ∈blockswith𝐻(𝑏 ′)=𝑏.par, i.e., the parent of𝑏is inblocks.
Now suppose we set timeouts to3 Δ. In what follows, we suppose that2 𝑠≤Δ , that view 𝑣− 1
begins after GST (i.e., the first correct processor to enter the view does so after GST) and that the
leaders of views𝑣−1and𝑣are both correct. There are four cases to consider.
Case 1. The first correct processor to enter view 𝑣 does so upon receiving an N-certificate for view
𝑣− 1. The leader of view 𝑣 proposes a block 𝑏 with parent 𝑏′ such that 𝑏′.view<𝑣− 1. In this case,
suppose the first correct processor to enter view 𝑣− 1does so at 𝑡0, while the first correct processor
to enter view 𝑣 does so at 𝑡1. Note that 𝑡1 ≥𝑡 0 + 3Δ. By Lemma E.6,lead(𝑣) enters view 𝑣− 1by
𝑡0 + 2Δ+𝑠 and 𝑏′ is in its local value blocks by this time. By Lemma E.5, and since2 𝑠≤Δ , 𝑏′ is in
blocks𝑗 for every correct processor 𝑝 𝑗 by 𝑡1 + 2Δ. Processorlead(𝑣) enters view 𝑣 by 𝑡1 +Δ and
runs ProposeBlock by this time. All correct processors vote for𝑏by𝑡+2Δ.
Case 2. The first correct processor to enter view 𝑣 does so upon receiving an N-certificate for view
𝑣− 1. The leader of view 𝑣 proposes a block 𝑏 with parent 𝑏′ such that 𝑏′.view=𝑣− 1. In this
case, suppose the first correct processor to enter view 𝑣 does so at 𝑡. Then all correct processors,
includinglead(𝑣) , do so by 𝑡+Δ . All correct processors receive an M-certificate for 𝑏′ by 𝑡+ 2Δ,
and also add the parent 𝑏′′ of 𝑏′ and all ancestors of 𝑏′′ into their local value blocks by this time.
Since lead(𝑣− 1) is correct, all correct processors receive sufficiently many certified fragments of
𝑏′ to recover the payload by𝑡+3Δ, and vote for𝑏by this time.
Case 3. The first correct processor to enter view 𝑣 does so upon receiving an M-certificate for a
view 𝑣− 1block 𝑏′. The leader of view 𝑣 proposes a block 𝑏 with 𝑏′ as parent. In this case, suppose
the first correct processor to enter view 𝑣 does so at 𝑡. Then all correct processors receive an
M-certificate for 𝑏′ by 𝑡+Δ . Since lead(𝑣− 1) is correct, all correct processors receive certified

--- PAGE 36 ---
Chou et al.36
fragments sufficient to recover the payload of𝑏 ′ by𝑡+2Δ, and have entered view𝑣and added𝑏 ′
and all ancestors to their local valueblocks by this time. In particular,lead(𝑣) enters view 𝑣 by
𝑡+2Δ, and all correct processors vote for their proposal𝑏by𝑡+3Δ.
Case 4. The first correct processor to enter view𝑣 does so upon receiving an M-certificate for a view
𝑣− 1block 𝑏′′. The leader of view𝑣 proposes a block𝑏 with 𝑏′ as parent such that𝑏′.view<𝑣− 1. In
this case, suppose the first correct processor to enter view 𝑣− 1does so at 𝑡0, while the first correct
processor 𝑝𝑖 to enter view 𝑣 does so at 𝑡1. Then all correct processors receive an M-certificate for
𝑏′′ by 𝑡1 +Δ and add all ancestors of the parent of 𝑏′′ to their local value blocks by this time.
Since some correct processors receive their certified fragments of 𝑏′′ fromlead(𝑣− 1) by 𝑡1 and
lead(𝑣− 1) is correct, all correct processors receive their certified fragments of𝑏′′ by 𝑡1 +Δ , and so
would vote for 𝑏′′ by this time if they have not already timed out. Since lead(𝑣) leaves view 𝑣− 1
upon receiving an N-certificate for view 𝑣− 1, it follows that 𝑡1 ≥𝑡 0 + 2Δ. By Lemma E.6, lead(𝑣)
enters view 𝑣− 1by 𝑡0 + 2Δ+𝑠 and, by Lemma E.5 and the fact that2 𝑠≤Δ , all correct processors
add 𝑏′ to their local valueblocks by 𝑡0 + 5Δ≤𝑡 1 + 3Δ. As in Case 3, all correct processors enter
view 𝑣 by 𝑡1 + 2Δ. All correct processors therefore receive their certified fragment of𝑏 fromlead(𝑣)
by𝑡 1 +3Δand it is votable for view𝑣by that time.