--- PAGE 1 ---
arXiv:1807.04938v3  [cs.DC]  22 Nov 2019
1
The latest gossip on BFT consensus
Ethan Buchman, Jae Kwon and Zarko Milosevic
Tendermint
September 24, 2018
Abstract
The paper presents Tendermint, a new protocol for ordering e vents in a distributed network under adversarial
conditions. More commonly known as Byzantine Fault Toleran t (BFT) consensus or atomic broadcast, the problem
has attracted signiﬁcant attention in recent years due to th e widespread success of blockchain-based digital
currencies, such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, which successful ly solved the problem in a public setting without a
central authority. Tendermint modernizes classic academi c work on the subject and simpliﬁes the design of the
BFT algorithm by relying on a peer-to-peer gossip protocol a mong nodes.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Consensus is one of the most fundamental problems in distrib uted computing. It is important because of
it’s role in State Machine Replication (SMR), a generic appr oach for replicating services that can be modeled
as a deterministic state machine [1], [2]. The key idea of thi s approach is that service replicas start in the same
initial state, and then execute requests (also called trans actions) in the same order; thereby guaranteeing that
replicas stay in sync with each other. The role of consensus i n the SMR approach is ensuring that all replicas
receive transactions in the same order. Traditionally, dep loyments of SMR based systems are in data-center
settings (local area network), have a small number of replic as (three to seven) and are typically part of a single
administration domain (e.g., Chubby [3]); therefore they h andle benign (crash) failures only, as more general
forms of failure (in particular, malicious or Byzantine fau lts) are considered to occur with only negligible
probability.
The success of cryptocurrencies or blockchain systems in re cent years (e.g., [4], [5]) pose a whole new set of
challenges on the design and deployment of SMR based systems : reaching agreement over wide area network,
among large number of nodes (hundreds or thousands) that are not part of the same administration domain,
and where a subset of nodes can behave maliciously (Byzantin e faults). Furthermore, contrary to the previous
data-center deployments where nodes are fully connected to each other, in blockchain systems, a node is only
connected to a subset of other nodes, so communication is ach ieved by gossip-based peer-to-peer protocols.
The new requirements demand designs and algorithms that are not necessarily present in the classical academic
literature on Byzantine fault tolerant consensus (or SMR) s ystems (e.g., [6], [7]) as the primary focus was
different setup.
In this paper we describe a novel Byzantine-fault tolerant c onsensus algorithm that is the core of the
BFT SMR platform called Tendermint 1. The Tendermint platform consists of a high-performance BF T SMR
1The Tendermint platform is available open source at https:/ /github.com/tendermint/tendermint.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
implementation written in Go, a ﬂexible interface for build ing arbitrary deterministic applications above the
consensus, and a suite of tools for deployment and managemen t.
The Tendermint consensus algorithm is inspired by the PBFT S MR algorithm [8] and the DLS algorithm
for authenticated faults (the Algorithm 2 from [6]). Simila r to DLS algorithm, Tendermint proceeds in rounds 2,
where each round has a dedicated proposer (also called coord inator or leader) and a process proceeds to a new
round as part of normal processing (not only in case the propo ser is faulty or suspected as being faulty by
enough processes as in PBFT). The communication pattern of e ach round is very similar to the ”normal” case
of PBFT. Therefore, in preferable conditions (correct prop oser, timely and reliable communication between
correct processes), Tendermint decides in three communica tion steps (the same as PBFT).
The major novelty and contribution of the Tendermint consen sus algorithm is a new termination mechanism.
As explained in [9], [10], the existing BFT consensus (and SM R) algorithms for the partially synchronous system
model (for example PBFT [8], [6], [11]) typically relies on t he communication pattern illustrated in Figure 1
for termination. The Figure 1 illustrates messages exchang ed during the proposer change when processes start a
new round 3. It guarantees that eventually (ie. after some Global Stabi lization Time, GST), there exists a round
with a correct proposer that will bring the system into a univ alent conﬁguration. Intuitively, in a round in which
the proposed value is accepted by all correct processes, and communication between correct processes is timely
and reliable, all correct processes decide.
p1
p2
p3
p4
v1
v2
v3
v4
x, [v1..4]
x, [v1..4]
x, [v1..4]
x, [v1..4]
Fig. 1: Proposer (coordinator) change: p1 is the new proposer.
To ensure that a proposed value is accepted by all correct pro cesses4 a proposer will 1) build the global state
by receiving messages from other processes, 2) select the sa fe value to propose and 3) send the selected value
together with the signed messages received in the ﬁrst step t o support it. The value vi that a correct process
sends to the next proposer normally corresponds to a value th e process considers as acceptable for a decision:
• in PBFT [8] and DLS [6] it is not the value itself but a set of 2f + 1 signed messages with the same
value id,
• in Fast Byzantine Paxos [11] the value itself is being sent.
2Tendermint is not presented in the basic round model of [6]. F urthermore, we use the term round differently than in [6]; in Tendermint
a round denotes a sequence of communication steps instead of a single communication step in [6].
3There is no consistent terminology in the distributed compu ting terminology on naming sequence of communication steps that
corresponds to a logical unit. It is sometimes called a round , phase or a view.
4The proposed value is not blindly accepted by correct proces ses in BFT algorithms. A correct process always veriﬁes if th e proposed
value is safe to be accepted so that safety properties of cons ensus are not violated.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
In both cases, using this mechanism in our system model (ie. h igh number of nodes over gossip based
network) would have high communication complexity that inc reases with the number of processes: in the ﬁrst
case as the message sent depends on the total number of proces ses, and in the second case as the value (block
of transactions) is sent by each process. The set of messages received in the ﬁrst step are normally piggybacked
on the proposal message (in the Figure 1 denoted with [v1..4]) to justify the choice of the selected value x.
Note that sending this message also does not scale with the nu mber of processes in the system.
We designed a novel termination mechanism for Tendermint th at better suits the system model we consider.
It does not require additional communication (neither send ing new messages nor piggybacking information on
the existing messages) and it is fully based on the communica tion pattern that is very similar to the normal
case in PBFT [8]. Therefore, there is only a single mode of exe cution in Tendermint, i.e., there is no separation
between the normal and the recovery mode, which is the case in other PBFT-like protocols (e.g., [8], [12] or
[13]). We believe this makes Tendermint simpler to understa nd and implement correctly.
Note that the orthogonal approach for reducing message comp lexity in order to improve scalability and
decentralization (number of processes) of BFT consensus al gorithms is using advanced cryptography (for
example Boneh-Lynn-Shacham (BLS) signatures [14]) as done for example in SBFT [15].
The remainder of the paper is as follows: Section II deﬁnes th e system model and gives the problem
deﬁnitions. Tendermint consensus algorithm is presented i n Section III and the proofs are given in Section IV .
We conclude in Section V .
II. D EFINITIONS
A. Model
We consider a system of processes that communicate by exchan ging messages. Processes can be correct or
faulty, where a faulty process can behave in an arbitrary way , i.e., we consider Byzantine faults. We assume
that each process has some amount of voting power (voting pow er of a process can be 0). Processes in our
model are not part of a single administrative domain; theref ore we cannot enforce a direct network connectivity
between all processes. Instead, we assume that each process is connected to a subset of processes called peers,
such that there is an indirect communication channel betwee n all correct processes. Communication between
processes is established using a gossip protocol [16].
Formally, we model the network communication using a varian t of the partially synchronous system model [6]:
in all executions of the system there is a bound ∆ and an instant GST (Global Stabilization Time) such that all
communication among correct processes after GST is reliabl e and ∆-timely, i.e., if a correct process p sends
message m at time t ≥ GST to a correct process q, then q will receive m before t + ∆5. In addition to the
standard partially synchronous system model [6], we assume an auxiliary property that captures gossip-b ased
nature of communication 6:
• Gossip communication: If a correct process p sends some message m at time t, all correct processes
will receive m before max{t, GST } + ∆. Furthermore, if a correct process p receives some message
5Note that as we do not assume direct communication channels a mong all correct processes, this implies that before the mes sage m
reaches q, it might pass through a number of correct processes that wil l forward the message m using gossip protocol towards q.
6The details of the Tendermint gossip protocol will be discus sed in a separate technical report.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
m at time t, all correct processes will receive m before max{t, GST } + ∆.
The bound ∆ and GST are system parameters whose values are not required t o be known for the safety of
our algorithm. Termination of the algorithm is guaranteed w ithin a bounded duration after GST. In practice, the
algorithm will work correctly in the slightly weaker varian t of the model where the system alternates between
(long enough) good periods (corresponds to the after GST period where system is reliable and ∆-timely) and
bad periods (corresponds to the period before GST during which the system is asynchronous and messages can
be lost), but consideration of the GST model simpliﬁes the di scussion.
We assume that process steps (which might include sending an d receiving messages) take zero time.
Processes are equipped with clocks so they can measure local timeouts. Spooﬁng/impersonation attacks are
assumed to be impossible at all times due to the use of public- key cryptography, i.e., we assume that all
protocol messages contains a digital signature. Therefore , when a correct process q receives a signed message
m from its peer, the process q can verify who was the original sender of the message m and if the message
signature is valid. We do not explicitly state a signature ve riﬁcation step in the pseudo-code of the algorithm
to improve readability; we assume that only messages with th e valid signature are considered at that level (and
messages with invalid signatures are dropped).
B. State Machine Replication
State machine replication (SMR) is a general approach for re plicating services modeled as a deterministic
state machine [1], [2]. The key idea of this approach is to gua rantee that all replicas start in the same state
and then apply requests from clients in the same order, there by guaranteeing that the replicas’ states will not
diverge. Following Schneider [2], we note that the followin g is key for implementing a replicated state machine
tolerant to (Byzantine) faults:
• Replica Coordination. All [non-faulty] replicas receive and process the same sequ ence of requests.
Moreover, as Schneider also notes, this property can be deco mposed into two parts, Agreement and Order:
Agreement requires all (non-faulty) replicas to receive al l requests, and Order requires that the order of received
requests is the same at all replicas.
There is an additional requirement that needs to be ensured b y Byzantine tolerant state machine replica-
tion: only requests (called transactions in the Tendermint terminology) proposed by clients are executed. In
Tendermint, transaction veriﬁcation is the responsibilit y of the service that is being replicated; upon receiving
a transaction from the client, the Tendermint process will a sk the service if the request is valid, and only valid
requests will be processed.
C. Consensus
Tendermint solves state machine replication by sequential ly executing consensus instances to agree on
each block of transactions that are then executed by the serv ice being replicated. We consider a variant of
the Byzantine consensus problem called V alidity Predicate -based Byzantine consensus that is motivated by
blockchain systems [17]. The problem is deﬁned by an agreeme nt, a termination, and a validity property.
• Agreement: No two correct processes decide on different values.
• T ermination:All correct processes eventually decide on a value.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
• V alidity:A decided value is valid, i.e., it satisﬁes the predeﬁned pre dicate denoted valid().
This variant of the Byzantine consensus problem has an appli cation-speciﬁc valid() predicate to indicate
whether a value is valid. In the context of blockchain system s, for example, a value is not valid if it does not
contain an appropriate hash of the last value (block) added t o the blockchain.
III. T ENDERMINT CONSENSUS ALGORITHM
In this section we present the Tendermint Byzantine fault-t olerant consensus algorithm. The algorithm is
speciﬁed by the pseudo-code listing in Algorithm 1. We prese nt the algorithm as a set of upon rules that
are executed atomically 7. We assume that processes exchange protocol messages using a gossip protocol and
that both received and sent messages are stored in a local mes sage log for every process. An upon rule is
triggered once the message log contains messages such that t he corresponding condition evaluates to true.
The condition that assumes reception of X messages of a particular type and content denotes reception of
messages whose senders have aggregate voting power at least equal to X. For example, the condition 2f + 1
⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, r, id(v)⟩, evaluates to true upon reception of PRECOMMIT messages for height hp, a round
r and with value equal to id(v) whose senders have aggregate voting power at least equal to 2f + 1. Some of
the rules ends with ”for the ﬁrst time” constraint to denote t hat it is triggered only the ﬁrst time a corresponding
condition evaluates to true. This is because those rules do not always change the state of algorithm variables
so without this constraint, the algorithm could keep execut ing those rules forever. The variables with index p
are process local state variables, while variables without index p are value placeholders. The sign ∗ denotes
any value.
We denote with n the total voting power of processes in the system, and we assu me that the total voting
power of faulty processes in the system is bounded with a syst em parameter f . The algorithm assumes that
n > 3f , i.e., it requires that the total voting power of faulty proc esses is smaller than one third of the total
voting power. For simplicity we present the algorithm for th e case n = 3f + 1.
The algorithm proceeds in rounds, where each round has a dedi cated proposer. The mapping of rounds to
proposers is known to all processes and is given as a function proposer(h, round), returning the proposer for
the round round in the consensus instance h. We assume that the proposer selection function is weighted round-
robin, where processes are rotated proportional to their vo ting power 8. The internal protocol state transitions
are triggered by message reception and by expiration of time outs. There are three timeouts in Algorithm
1: timeoutP ropose, timeoutP revote and timeoutP recommit. The timeouts prevent the algorithm from
blocking and waiting forever for some condition to be true, e nsure that processes continuously transition between
rounds, and guarantee that eventually (after GST) communic ation between correct processes is timely and
reliable so they can decide. The last role is achieved by incr easing the timeouts with every new round r, i.e,
timeoutX (r) = initT imeoutX + r ∗ timeoutDelta; they are reset for every new height (consensus instance).
Processes exchange the following messages in Tendermint: PROPOSAL, PREVOTE and PRECOMMIT.
The PROPOSAL message is used by the proposer of the current round to sugges t a potential decision value,
7In case several rules are active at the same time, the ﬁrst rul e to be executed is picked randomly. The correctness of the al gorithm does
not depend on the order in which rules are executed.
8A validator with more voting power is selected more frequent ly, proportional to its power. More precisely, during a sequ ence of rounds
of size n, every process is proposer in a number of rounds equal to its v oting power.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
Algorithm 1 Tendermint consensus algorithm
1: Initialization:
2: hp := 0 /* current height, or consensus instance we are currently ex ecuting */
3: roundp := 0 /* current round number */
4: stepp∈{ propose, prevote, precommit}
5: decisionp[] := nil
6: lockedV aluep := nil
7: lockedRoundp :=− 1
8: validV alue p := nil
9: validRoundp :=− 1
10: upon start do StartRound (0)
11: Function StartRound (round) :
12: roundp← round
13: stepp← propose
14: if proposer(hp, roundp) = p then
15: if validV alue p̸= nil then
16: proposal← validV alue p
17: else
18: proposal← getV alue()
19: broadcast⟨PROPOSAL, hp, roundp, proposal, validRound p⟩
20: else
21: schedule OnT imeoutP ropose(hp , roundp) to be executed after timeoutP ropose(roundp)
22: upon⟨PROPOSAL, hp, roundp, v,− 1⟩ from proposer(hp, roundp) while stepp = propose do
23: if valid(v)∧ (lockedRoundp =− 1∨ lockedV alue p = v) then
24: broadcast⟨PREVOTE, hp, roundp, id(v)⟩
25: else
26: broadcast⟨PREVOTE, hp, roundp, nil⟩
27: stepp← prevote
28: upon⟨PROPOSAL, hp, roundp, v, vr⟩ from proposer(hp, roundp) AND 2f + 1⟨PREVOTE, hp, vr, id(v)⟩ while
stepp = propose∧ (vr≥ 0∧ vr < round p) do
29: if valid(v)∧ (lockedRoundp≤ vr∨ lockedV aluep = v) then
30: broadcast⟨PREVOTE, hp, roundp, id(v)⟩
31: else
32: broadcast⟨PREVOTE, hp, roundp, nil⟩
33: stepp← prevote
34: upon 2f + 1⟨PREVOTE, hp, roundp,∗⟩ while stepp = prevote for the ﬁrst time do
35: schedule OnT imeoutP revote(hp , roundp) to be executed after timeoutP revote(roundp)
36: upon⟨PROPOSAL, hp, roundp, v,∗⟩ from proposer(hp, roundp) AND 2f + 1⟨PREVOTE, hp, roundp, id(v)⟩ while
valid(v)∧ stepp≥ prevote for the ﬁrst time do
37: if stepp = prevote then
38: lockedV aluep← v
39: lockedRoundp← roundp
40: broadcast⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, roundp, id(v))⟩
41: stepp← precommit
42: validV alue p← v
43: validRoundp← roundp
44: upon 2f + 1⟨PREVOTE, hp, roundp, nil⟩ while stepp = prevote do
45: broadcast⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, roundp, nil⟩
46: stepp← precommit
47: upon 2f + 1⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, roundp,∗⟩ for the ﬁrst time do
48: schedule OnT imeoutP recommit(hp , roundp) to be executed after timeoutP recommit(roundp)
49: upon⟨PROPOSAL, hp, r, v,∗⟩ from proposer(hp, r) AND 2f + 1⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, r, id(v)⟩ while decisionp[hp] = nil do
50: if valid(v) then
51: decisionp[hp] = v
52: hp← hp + 1
53: reset lockedRoundp, lockedV aluep, validRoundp and validV alue p to initial values and empty message log
54: StartRound (0)
55: upon f + 1⟨∗, hp, round,∗,∗⟩ with round > round p do
56: StartRound (round)
57: Function OnT imeoutP ropose(height, round ) :
58: if height = hp∧ round = roundp∧ stepp = propose then
59: broadcast⟨PREVOTE, hp, roundp, nil⟩
60: stepp← prevote
61: Function OnT imeoutP revote(height, round ) :
62: if height = hp∧ round = roundp∧ stepp = prevote then
63: broadcast⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, roundp, nil⟩
64: stepp← precommit
65: Function OnT imeoutP recommit(height, round ) :
66: if height = hp∧ round = roundp then
67: StartRound (roundp + 1)
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
while PREVOTE and PRECOMMIT are votes for a proposed value. According to the classiﬁcati on of consensus
algorithms from [10], Tendermint, like PBFT [7] and DLS [6], belongs to class 3, so it requires two voting steps
(three communication exchanges in total) to decide a value. The Tendermint consensus algorithm is designed
for the blockchain context where the value to decide is a bloc k of transactions (ie. it is potentially quite large,
consisting of many transactions). Therefore, in the Algori thm 1 (similar as in [7]) we are explicit about sending
a value (block of transactions) and a small, constant size va lue id (a unique value identiﬁer, normally a hash
of the value, i.e., if id(v) = id(v′), then v = v′). The PROPOSAL message is the only one carrying the
value; PREVOTE and PRECOMMIT messages carry the value id. A correct process decides on a va lue v in
Tendermint upon receiving the PROPOSAL for v and 2f + 1 voting-power equivalent PRECOMMIT messages
for id(v) in some round r. In order to send PRECOMMIT message for v in a round r, a correct process waits
to receive the PROPOSAL and 2f + 1 of the corresponding PREVOTE messages in the round r. Otherwise, it
sends PRECOMMIT message with a special nil value. This ensures that correct processes can PRECOMMIT
only a single value (or nil) in a round. As proposers may be faulty, the proposed value is treated by correct
processes as a suggestion (it is not blindly accepted), and a correct process tells others if it accepted the
PROPOSAL for value v by sending PREVOTE message for id(v); otherwise it sends PREVOTE message
with the special nil value.
Every process maintains the following variables in the Algo rithm 1: step, lockedV alue , lockedRound,
validV alue and validRound. The step denotes the current state of the internal Tendermint state m achine, i.e.,
it reﬂects the stage of the algorithm execution in the curren t round. The lockedV alue stores the most recent
value (with respect to a round number) for which a PRECOMMIT message has been sent. The lockedRound
is the last round in which the process sent a PRECOMMIT message that is not nil. We also say that a correct
process locks a value v in a round r by setting lockedV alue = v and lockedRound = r before sending
PRECOMMIT message for id(v). As a correct process can decide a value v only if 2f + 1 PRECOMMIT
messages for id(v) are received, this implies that a possible decision value is a value that is locked by at least
f + 1 voting power equivalent of correct processes. Therefore, a ny value v for which PROPOSAL and 2f + 1
of the corresponding PREVOTE messages are received in some round r is a possible decision value. The role
of the validV alue variable is to store the most recent possible decision value ; the validRound is the last
round in which validV alue is updated. Apart from those variables, a process also store s the current consensus
instance ( hp, called height in Tendermint), and the current round number ( roundp) and attaches them to every
message. Finally, a process also stores an array of decision s, decisionp (Tendermint assumes a sequence of
consensus instances, one for each height).
Every round starts by a proposer suggesting a value with the PROPOSAL message (see line 19). In the initial
round of each height, the proposer is free to chose the value t o suggest. In the Algorithm 1, a correct process
obtains a value to propose using an external function getV alue() that returns a valid value to propose. In the
following rounds, a correct proposer will suggest a new valu e only if validV alue = nil; otherwise validV alue
is proposed (see lines 15-18). In addition to the value propo sed, the PROPOSAL message also contains the
validRound so other processes are informed about the last round in which the proposer observed validV alue
as a possible decision value. Note that if a correct proposer p sends validV alue with the validRound in the
PROPOSAL, this implies that the process p received PROPOSAL and the corresponding 2f + 1 PREVOTE
messages for validV alue in the round validRound. If a correct process sends PROPOSAL message with
validV alue (validRound > − 1) at time t > GST , by the Gossip communication property, the corresponding
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
PROPOSAL and the PREVOTE messages will be received by all correct processes before ti me t+∆. Therefore,
all correct processes will be able to verify the correctness of the suggested value as it is supported by the
PROPOSAL and the corresponding 2f + 1 voting power equivalent PREVOTE messages.
A correct process p accepts the proposal for a value v (send PREVOTE for id(v)) if an external valid
function returns true for the value v, and if p hasn’t locked any value ( lockedRound = − 1) or p has
locked the value v (lockedV alue = v); see the line 23. In case the proposed pair is (v, vr ≥ 0) and a
correct process p has locked some value, it will accept v if it is a more recent possible decision value 9,
vr > lockedRound p, or if lockedV alue = v (see line 29). Otherwise, a correct process will reject the
proposal by sending PREVOTE message with nil value. A correct process will send PREVOTE message with
nil value also in case timeoutP ropose expired (it is triggered when a correct process starts a new r ound) and
a process has not sent PREVOTE message in the current round yet (see the line 57).
If a correct process receives PROPOSAL message for some value v and 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages
for id(v), then it sends PRECOMMIT message with id(v). Otherwise, it sends PRECOMMIT nil. A correct
process will send PRECOMMIT message with nil value also in case timeoutP revote expired (it is started
when a correct process sent PREVOTE message and received any 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages) and a process
has not sent PRECOMMIT message in the current round yet (see the line 65). A correct p rocess decides on
some value v if it receives in some round r PROPOSAL message for v and 2f + 1 PRECOMMIT messages
with id(v) (see the line 51). To prevent the algorithm from blocking and waiting forever for this condition
to be true, the Algorithm 1 relies on timeoutP recommit. It is triggered after a process receives any set of
2f + 1 PRECOMMIT messages for the current round. If the timeoutP recommit expires and a process has not
decided yet, the process starts the next round (see the line 6 5). When a correct process p decides, it starts the
next consensus instance (for the next height). The Gossip communication property ensures that PROPOSAL
and 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages that led p to decide are eventually received by all correct processes, so they
will also decide.
A. T ermination mechanism
Tendermint ensures termination by a novel mechanism that be neﬁts from the gossip based nature of commu-
nication (see Gossip communication property). It requires managing two additional variables, validV alue and
validRound that are then used by the proposer during the propose step as e xplained above. The validV alue
and validRound are updated to v and r by a correct process in a round r when the process receives valid
PROPOSAL message for the value v and the corresponding 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages for id(v) in the round
r (see the rule at line 36).
We now give brieﬂy the intuition how managing and proposing validV alue and validRound ensures
termination. Formal treatment is left for Section IV .
The ﬁrst thing to note is that during good period, because of t he Gossip communication property, if a correct
process p locks a value v in some round r, all correct processes will update validV alue to v and validRound to
r before the end of the round r (we prove this formally in the Section IV). The intuition is t hat messages that led
to p locking a value v in the round r will be gossiped to all correct processes before the end of th e round r, so it
9As explained above, the possible decision value in a round r is the one for which PROPOSAL and the corresponding 2f +1 PREVOTE
messages are received for the round r.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
will update validV alue and validRound (the line 36). Therefore, if a correct process locks some val ue during
good period, validV alue and validRound are updated by all correct processes so that the value propos ed in
the following rounds will be acceptable by all correct proce sses. Note that it could happen that during good
period, no correct process locks a value, but some correct pr ocess q updates validV alue and validRound
during some round. As no correct process locks a value in this case, validV alue q and validRound q will also
be acceptable by all correct processes as validRound q > lockedRound c for every correct process c and as
the Gossip communication property ensures that the corresponding PREVOTE messages that q received in the
round validRound q are received by all correct processes ∆ time later.
Finally, it could happen that after GST, there is a long seque nce of rounds in which no correct process
neither locks a value nor update validV alue and validRound. In this case, during this sequence of rounds,
the proposed value suggested by correct processes was not ac cepted by all correct processes. Note that this
sequence of rounds is always ﬁnite as at the beginning of ever y round there is at least a single correct process
c such that validV alue c and validRound c are acceptable by every correct process. This is true as ther e
exists a correct process c such that for every other correct process p, validRound c > lockedRound p or
validV alue c = lockedV alue p. This is true as c is the process that has locked a value in the most recent
round among all correct processes (or no correct process loc ked any value). Therefore, eventually c will be the
proper in some round and the proposed value will be accepted b y all correct processes, terminating therefore
this sequence of rounds.
Therefore, updating validV alue and validRound variables, and the Gossip communication property, to-
gether ensures that eventually, during the good period, the re exists a round with a correct proposer whose
proposed value will be accepted by all correct processes, an d all correct processes will terminate in that round.
Note that this mechanism, contrary to the common terminatio n mechanism illustrated in the Figure 1, does not
require exchanging any additional information in addition to messages already sent as part of what is normally
being called ”normal” case.
IV. P ROOF OF TENDERMINT CONSENSUS ALGORITHM
Lemma 1. F or all f ≥ 0, any two sets of processes with voting power at least equal to 2f + 1 have at least
one correct process in common.
Proof: As the total voting power is equal to n = 3 f + 1, we have 2(2f + 1) = n + f + 1. This means
that the intersection of two sets with the voting power equal to 2f + 1 contains at least f + 1 voting power
in common, i.e., at least one correct process (as the total voting power of fa ulty processes is f ). The result
follows directly from this.
Lemma 2. If f + 1 correct processes lock value v in round r0 (lockedV alue = v and lockedRound = r0),
then in all rounds r > r 0, they send PREVOTE for id(v) or nil.
Proof: We prove the result by induction on r.
Base step r = r0 + 1 : Let’s denote with C the set of correct processes with voting power equal to f + 1. By
the rules at line 22 and line 28, the processes from the set C can’t accept PROPOSAL for any value different
from v in round r, and therefore can’t send a ⟨PREVOTE, heightp, r, id(v′)⟩ message, if v′ ̸= v. Therefore,
the Lemma holds for the base step.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
Induction step from r1 to r1 + 1: We assume that no process from the set C has sent PREVOTE for values
different than id(v) or nil until round r1 + 1. We now prove that the Lemma also holds for round r1 + 1. As
processes from the set C send PREVOTE for id(v) or nil in rounds r0 ≤ r ≤ r1, by Lemma 1 there is no value
v′ ̸= v for which it is possible to receive 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages in those rounds (i). Therefore, we have
for all processes from the set C, lockedV alue = v and lockedRound ≥ r0. Let’s assume by a contradiction
that a process q from the set C sends PREVOTE in round r1 + 1 for value id(v′), where v′ ̸= v. This is
possible only by line 30. Note that this implies that q received 2f + 1 ⟨PREVOTE, hq, r, id(v′)⟩ messages,
where r > r 0 and r < r 1 + 1 (see line 29). A contradiction with (i) and Lemma 1.
Lemma 3. Algorithm 1 satisﬁes Agreement.
Proof: Let round r0 be the ﬁrst round of height h such that some correct process p decides v. We now
prove that if some correct process q decides v′ in some round r ≥ r0, then v = v′.
In case r = r0, q has received at least 2f + 1 ⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, r0, id(v′)⟩ messages at line 49, while
p has received at least 2f + 1 ⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, r0, id(v)⟩ messages. By Lemma 1 two sets of messages of
voting power 2f + 1 intersect in at least one correct process. As a correct proce ss sends a single PRECOMMIT
message in a round, then v = v′.
We prove the case r > r 0 by contradiction. By the rule 49, p has received at least 2f + 1 voting-
power equivalent of ⟨PRECOMMIT, hp, r0, id(v)⟩ messages, i.e., at least f + 1 voting-power equivalent correct
processes have locked value v in round r0 and have sent those messages (i). Let denote this set of messa ges with
C. On the other side, q has received at least 2f + 1 voting power equivalent of ⟨PRECOMMIT, hq, r, id(v′)⟩
messages. As the voting power of all faulty processes is at mo st f , some correct process c has sent one of those
messages. By the rule at line 36, c has locked value v′ in round r before sending ⟨PRECOMMIT, hq, r, id(v′)⟩.
Therefore c has received 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages for id(v′) in round r > r 0 (see line 36). By Lemma 1,
a process from the set C has sent PREVOTE message for id(v′) in round r. A contradiction with (i) and
Lemma 2.
Lemma 4. Algorithm 1 satisﬁes V alidity.
Proof: Trivially follows from the rule at line 50 which ensures that only valid values can be decided.
Lemma 5. If we assume that:
1) a correct process p is the ﬁrst correct process to enter a round r > 0 at time t > GST (for every correct
process c, roundc ≤ r at time t)
2) the proposer of round r is a correct process q
3) for every correct process c, lockedRound c ≤ validRound q at time t
4) timeoutP ropose(r) > 2∆+timeoutP recommit(r− 1), timeoutP revote(r) > 2∆ and timeoutP recommit(r) >
2∆,
then all correct processes decide in round r before t + 4∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1).
Proof: As p is the ﬁrst correct process to enter round r, it executed the line 67 after timeoutP recommit(r−
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
1) expired. Therefore, p received 2f + 1 PRECOMMIT messages in the round r − 1 before time t. By the
Gossip communication property, all correct processes will receive those message s the latest at time t + ∆.
Correct processes that are in rounds < r − 1 at time t will enter round r − 1 (see the rule at line 56) and trigger
timeoutP recommit(r − 1) (see rule 47) by time t + ∆. Therefore, all correct processes will start round r by
time t + ∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1) (i).
In the worst case, the process q is the last correct process to enter round r, so q starts round r and sends
PROPOSAL message for some value v at time t + ∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1). Therefore, all correct
processes receive the PROPOSAL message from q the latest by time t + 2∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1).
Therefore, if timeoutP ropose(r) > 2∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1), all correct processes will receive
PROPOSAL message before timeoutP ropose(r) expires.
By (3) and the rules at line 22 and 28, all correct processes wi ll accept the PROPOSAL message for value
v and will send a PREVOTE message for id(v) by time t + 2∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1). Note that by
the Gossip communication property, the PREVOTE messages needed to trigger the rule at line 28 are received
before time t + ∆.
By time t + 3∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1), all correct processes will receive PROPOSAL for v and
2f + 1 corresponding PREVOTE messages for id(v). By the rule at line 36, all correct processes will send a
PRECOMMIT message (see line 40) for id(v) by time t + 3∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1). Therefore, by
time t + 4∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1), all correct processes will have received the PROPOSAL for v and
2f + 1 PRECOMMIT messages for id(v), so they decide at line 51 on v.
This scenario holds if every correct process q sends a PRECOMMIT message before timeoutP revote(r)
expires, and if timeoutP recommit(r) does not expire before t + 4∆ + timeoutP recommit(r − 1). Let’s
assume that a correct process c1 is the ﬁrst correct process to trigger timeoutP revote(r) (see the rule at
line 34) at time t1 > t. This implies that before time t1, c1 received a PROPOSAL (stepc1 must be prevote by
the rule at line 34) and a set of 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages. By time t1 + ∆, all correct processes will receive
those messages. Note that even if some correct process was in the smaller round before time t1, at time t1 + ∆
it will start round r after receiving those messages (see the rule at line 55). The refore, all correct processes will
send their PREVOTE message for id(v) by time t1 + ∆, and all correct processes will receive those messages
the by time t1 + 2∆. Therefore, as timeoutP revote(r) > 2∆, this ensures that all correct processes receive
PREVOTE messages from all correct processes before their respectiv e local timeoutP revote(r) expire.
On the other hand, timeoutP recommit(r) is triggered in a correct process c2 after it receives any set
of 2f + 1 PRECOMMIT messages for the ﬁrst time. Let’s denote with t2 > t the earliest point in time
timeoutP recommit(r) is triggered in some correct process c2. This implies that c2 has received at least f + 1
PRECOMMIT messages for id(v) from correct processes, i.e., those processes have receive d PROPOSAL for
v and 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages for id(v) before time t2. By the Gossip communication property, all correct
processes will receive those messages by time t2 + ∆, and will send PRECOMMIT messages for id(v). Note
that even if some correct processes were at time t2 in a round smaller than r, by the rule at line 55 they will
enter round r by time t2 + ∆. Therefore, by time t2 + 2∆, all correct processes will receive PROPOSAL for v
and 2f + 1 PRECOMMIT messages for id(v). So if timeoutP recommit(r) > 2∆, all correct processes will
decide before the timeout expires.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
Lemma 6. If a correct process p locks a value v at time t0 > GST in some round r (lockedV alue = v and
lockedRound = r) and timeoutP recommit(r) > 2∆, then all correct processes set validV alue to v and
validRound to r before starting round r + 1.
Proof: In order to prove this Lemma, we need to prove that if the proce ss p locks a value v at time t0,
then no correct process will leave round r before time t0 + ∆ (unless it has already set validV alue to v and
validRound to r). It is sufﬁcient to prove this, since by the Gossip communication property the messages that
p received at time t0 and that triggered rule at line 36 will be received by time t0 + ∆ by all correct processes,
so all correct processes that are still in round r will set validV alue to v and validRound to r (by the rule
at line 36). To prove this, we need to compute the earliest poi nt in time a correct process could leave round r
without updating validV alue to v and validRound to r (we denote this time with t1). The Lemma is correct
if t0 + ∆ < t 1.
If the process p locks a value v at time t0, this implies that p received the valid PROPOSAL message for v
and 2f + 1 ⟨PREVOTE, h, r, id(v)⟩ at time t0. At least f + 1 of those messages are sent by correct processes.
Let’s denote this set of correct processes as C. By Lemma 1 any set of 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages in round
r contains at least a single message from the set C.
Let’s denote as time t the earliest point in time a correct process, c1, triggered timeoutP revote(r). This
implies that c1 received 2f + 1 PREVOTE messages (see the rule at line 34), where at least one of those
messages was sent by a process c2 from the set C. Therefore, process c2 had received PROPOSAL message
before time t. By the Gossip communication property, all correct processes will receive PROPOSAL and 2f + 1
PREVOTE messages for round r by time t + ∆. The latest point in time p will trigger timeoutP revote(r) is
t + ∆10. So the latest point in time p can lock the value v in round r is t0 = t + ∆ +timeoutP revote(r) (as at
this point timeoutP revote(r) expires, so a process sends PRECOMMIT nil and updates step to precommit,
see line 61).
Note that according to the Algorithm 1, a correct process can not send a PRECOMMIT message before
receiving 2f +1 PREVOTE messages. Therefore, no correct process can send a PRECOMMIT message in round
r before time t. If a correct process sends a PRECOMMIT message for nil, it implies that it has waited for
the full duration of timeoutP revote(r) (see line 63) 11. Therefore, no correct process can send PRECOMMIT
for nil before time t + timeoutP revote(r) (*).
A correct process q that enters round r+1 must wait (i) timeoutP recommit(r) (see line 67) or (ii) receiving
f + 1 messages from the round r + 1 (see the line 55). In the former case, q receives 2f + 1 PRECOMMIT
messages before starting timeoutP recommit(r). If at least a single PRECOMMIT message from a correct
process (at least f + 1 voting power equivalent of those messages is sent by correct processes) is for nil,
then q cannot start round r + 1 before time t1 = t + timeoutP revote(r) + timeoutP recommit(r) (see (*)).
Therefore in this case we have: t0 + ∆ < t 1, i.e., t + 2∆ + timeoutP revote(r) < t + timeoutP revote(r) +
timeoutP recommit(r), and this is true whenever timeoutP recommit(r) > 2∆, so Lemma holds in this
case.
10Note that even if p was in smaller round at time t it will start round r by time t + ∆.
11The other case in which a correct process PRECOMMIT for nil is after receiving 2f + 1 P revote for nil messages, see the line
45. By Lemma 1, this is not possible in round r.
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
If in the set of 2f + 1 PRECOMMIT messages q receives, there is at least a single PRECOMMIT for
id(v) message from a correct process c, then q can start the round r + 1 the earliest at time t1 = t +
timeoutP recommit(r). In this case, by the Gossip communication property, all correct processes will receive
PROPOSAL and 2f +1 PREVOTE messages (that c received before time t) the latest at time t+∆. Therefore, q
will set validV alue to v and validRound to r the latest at time t+ ∆. As t+ ∆ < t + timeoutP recommit(r),
whenever timeoutP recommit(r) > ∆, the Lemma holds also in this case.
In case (ii), q received at least a single message from a correct process c from the round r + 1. The earliest
point in time c could have started round r + 1 is t + timeoutP recommit(r) in case it received a PRECOMMIT
message for v from some correct process in the set of 2f + 1 PRECOMMIT messages it received. The same
reasoning as above holds also in this case, so q set validV alue to v and validRound to r the latest by time
t + ∆. As t + ∆ < t + timeoutP recommit(r), whenever timeoutP recommit(r) > ∆, the Lemma holds also
in this case.
Lemma 7. Algorithm 1 satisﬁes T ermination.
Proof: Lemma 5 deﬁnes a scenario in which all correct processes deci de. We now prove that within a
bounded duration after GST such a scenario will unfold. Let’ s assume that at time GST the highest round
started by a correct process is r0, and that there exists a correct process p such that the following holds: for
every correct process c, lockedRound c ≤ validRound p. Furthermore, we assume that p will be the proposer
in some round r1 > r (this is ensured by the proposer function).
We have two cases to consider. In the ﬁrst case, for all rounds r ≥ r0 and r < r 1, no correct process locks a
value (set lockedRound to r). So in round r1 we have the scenario from the Lemma 5, so all correct processe s
decides in round r1.
In the second case, a correct process locks a value v in round r2, where r2 ≥ r0 and r2 < r1. Let’s assume
that r2 is the highest round before r1 in which some correct process q locks a value. By Lemma 6 at the end of
round r2 the following holds for all correct processes c: validV alue c = lockedV alue q and validRound c = r2.
Then in round r1, the conditions for the Lemma 5 holds, so all correct process es decide.
V. C ONCLUSION
We have proposed a new Byzantine-fault tolerant consensus a lgorithm that is the core of the Tendermint BFT
SMR platform. The algorithm is designed for the wide area net work with high number of mutually distrusted
nodes that communicate over gossip based peer-to-peer netw ork. It has only a single mode of execution and
the communication pattern is very similar to the ”normal” ca se of the state-of-the art PBFT algorithm. The
algorithm ensures termination with a novel mechanism that t akes advantage of the gossip based communication
between nodes. The proposed algorithm and the proofs are sim ple and elegant, and we believe that this makes
it easier to understand and implement correctly.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We would like to thank Anton Kaliaev, Ismail Khofﬁ and Dahlia Malkhi for comments on an earlier version
of the paper. We also want to thank Marko Vukolic, Ming Chuan L in, Maria Potop-Butucaru, Sara Tucci,
Antonella Del Pozzo and Y ackolley Amoussou-Guenou for poin ting out the liveness issues in the previous
November 25, 2019 DRAFT

--- PAGE 14 ---
14
version of the algorithm. Finally, we want to thank the Tende rmint team members and all project contributors
for making Tendermint such a great platform.
REFERENCES
[1] L. Lamport, “Time, clocks, and the ordering of events in a distributed system,” Commun. ACM , 1978.
[2] F. B. Schneider, “Implementing fault-tolerant service s using the state machine approach: a tutorial,” ACM Comput. Surv. , vol. 22,
no. 4, Dec. 1990.
[3] M. Burrows, “The chubby lock service for loosely-couple d distributed systems,” in OSDI, 2006, pp. 335–350.
[4] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash s ystem,” 2009. [Online]. Available: http://www.bitcoin.o rg/bitcoin.pdf
[5] V . Buterin, “Ethereum: A next-generation smart contrac t and decentralized application platform,” https://githu b.com/ethereum/wiki/
wiki/White-Paper, 2014, accessed: 2018-07-11. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper
[6] C. Dwork, N. Lynch, and L. Stockmeyer, “Consensus in the p resence of partial synchrony,” JACM, 1988.
[7] M. Castro and B. Liskov, “Practical byzantine fault tole rance and proactive recovery,” ACMTCS, 2002.
[8] ——, “Practical byzantine fault tolerance and proactive recovery,” in Proceedings of the 3rd Symposium on Operating Systems Desig n
and Implementation, Feb. 1999.
[9] Z. Milosevic, M. Hutle, and A. Schiper, “Unifying Byzant ine consensus algorithms with Weak Interactive Consistenc y,” to appear
in OPODIS 2009.
[10] O. R¨ utti, Z. Milosevic, and A. Schiper, “Generic const ruction of consensus algorithms for benign and byzantine fa ults,” in DSN,
2010, pp. 343–352.
[11] J.-P . Martin and L. Alvisi, “Fast Byzantine consensus, ” TDSC, 2006.
[12] G. S. V eronese, M. Correia, A. N. Bessani, and L. C. Lung, “Spin one’s wheels? byzantine fault tolerance with a spinni ng primary,”
in SRDS, 2009.
[13] A. Clement, E. Wong, L. Alvisi, M. Dahlin, and M. Marchet ti, “Making byzantine fault tolerant systems tolerate byza ntine faults,”
in NSDI, 2009, pp. 153–168.
[14] D. Boneh, B. Lynn, and H. Shacham, “Short signatures fro m the weil pairing,” in Proceedings of the 7th International Conference
on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security: Advances in Cryptology , ser. ASIACRYPT ’01. Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer-V erlag, 2001, pp. 514–532. [Online] . Available: http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=647097 .717005
[15] G. Golan-Gueta, I. Abraham, S. Grossman, D. Malkhi, B. P inkas, M. K. Reiter, D. Seredinschi, O. Tamir, and A. Tomescu ,
“SBFT: a scalable decentralized trust infrastructure for b lockchains,” CoRR, vol. abs/1804.01626, 2018. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1804.01626
[16] A. Demers, D. Greene, C. Hauser, W. Irish, J. Larson, S. S henker, H. Sturgis, D. Swinehart, and D. Terry, “Epidemic al gorithms
for replicated database maintenance,” in Proceedings of the Sixth Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing ,
ser. PODC ’87. New Y ork, NY , USA: ACM, 1987, pp. 1–12. [Online ]. Available: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/41840.41841
[17] T. Crain, V . Gramoli, M. Larrea, and M. Raynal, “Leader/ randomization/signature-free byzantine consensus for co nsortium
blockchains,” CoRR, vol. abs/1702.03068, 2017. [Online]. Available: http:// arxiv.org/abs/1702.03068
November 25, 2019 DRAFT