                                        Trap: The Bait of Rational Players to Solve
                                                  Byzantine Consensus




arXiv:2105.04357v2 [cs.DC] 7 Mar 2022
                                          Alejandro Ranchal-Pedrosa                         Vincent Gramoli
                                                 University of Sydney                  University of Sydney and EPFL
                                                  Sydney, Australia                           Sydney, Australia
                                        alejandro.ranchalpedrosa@sydney.edu.au         vincent.gramoli@sydney.edu.au

                                                                      March 8, 2022

                                                                          Abstract
                                              It is impossible to solve the Byzantine consensus problem in an open
                                          network of n participants if only 2n/3 or less of them are correct. As
                                          blockchains need to solve consensus, one might think that blockchains
                                          need more than 2n/3 correct participants. But it is yet unknown whether
                                          consensus can be solved when less than 2n/3 participants are correct and
                                          k participants are rational players, which misbehave if they can gain the
                                          loot. Trading correct participants for rational players may not seem help-
                                          ful to solve consensus since rational players can misbehave whereas correct
                                          participants, by definition, cannot.
                                              In this paper, we show that consensus is actually solvable in this
                                          model, even with less than 2n/3 correct participants. The key idea
                                          is a baiting strategy that lets rational players pretend to misbehave in
                                          joining a coalition but rewards them to betray this coalition before the
                                          loot gets stolen. We propose Trap, a protocol that builds upon recent
                                          advances in the theory of accountability
                                                                                       to solve consensus as soon as
                                          n > max 32 k + 3t, 2(k + t) : by assuming that private keys cannot be
                                          forged, this protocol is an equilibrium where no coalition of k rational
                                          players can coordinate to increase their expected utility regardless of the
                                          arbitrary behavior of up to t Byzantine players.
                                              Finally, we show that a baiting strategy is necessary and sufficient to
                                          solve this, so-called rational agreement problem. First, we show that it is
                                          impossible to solve this rational agreement problem without implement-
                                          ing a baiting strategy. Second, the existence of Trap demonstrates the
                                          sufficiency of the baiting strategy. Our Trap protocol finds applications
                                          in blockchains to prevent players from disagreeing, that could otherwise
                                          lead to “double spending”.




                                                                              1
1    Introduction and Background
Consider n players, each with some initial value. Solving the Byzantine con-
sensus problem consists of designing a protocol guaranteeing that the n − t
non-Byzantine players agree by outputting the same value and despite the pres-
ence of up to t arbitrarily behaving Byzantine players. Standard cryptography,
which permits oblivious signed transfers and assumes computationally bounded
players, has recently been used to build undeniable proofs identifying the players
that led the system to a disagreement [12, 13]. Although this construction has
not been used in the game theoretical context, one can intuitively see its appli-
cation to implement a baiting strategy that incentivizes rational players to solve
blockchain consensus: the idea is to reward rational players to pretend to join a
coalition in order to deceit the coalition by exposing undeniable proofs-of-fraud
(PoFs).
    Placed in the game theory context, one can see a consensus protocol among
rational players as a Nash equilibrium, however, a Nash equilibrium only pre-
vents one rational player from increasing its utility by deviating solely, but
it fails at preventing multiple rational players from increasing their utility by
colluding and by all deviating together. The resilience against this type of coali-
tion, mentioned originally in the 50s [8], is needed to solve consensus despite
a coalition of k players. Ben-Porath [10] shows that one can simulate a Nash
equilibrium with a central trusted mediator provided that there is a punish-
ment strategy to threaten rational players in case they deviate and Heller [29]
strengthens Ben-Porath’s result to allow coalitions. Abraham et al. [2] applied
these results to secret sharing in the fully distributed setting, by showing that
one can simulate a mediator with cheap talks and assuming the same standard
cryptography we assume. A (k, t)-punishment strategy guarantees that if up to
k rational players deviate, then more than t non-deviating players, by playing
the punishment strategy, can lower the utility of these rational players.
    Another challenge when making consensus Byzantine fault tolerant is for the
equilibrium to be immune to t Byzantine players that act arbitrarily or whose
utility functions are unknown. Abraham et al. [2] were the first to formal-
ize k-resilience, t-immunity and ǫ-(k, t)-robustness. A protocol is a k-resilient
equilibrium if no rational coalition of size up to k can increase their utility by
deviating in a coordinated way. A protocol is t-immune if the expected utility of
the n − t non-faulty players is not decreased regardless of the arbitrary behavior
of up to t Byzantine players. A protocol is ǫ-(k, t)-robust if no coalition of k ra-
tional players can coordinate to increase their expected utility by ǫ regardless of
the arbitrary behavior of up to t Byzantine players, even if the Byzantine play-
ers join their coalition, where ǫ accounts for the (small) probability of breaking
the cryptography.
    Considering rational players alongside the well-known Byzantine faults to
ensure the agreement property of the consensus problem allows us to evaluate
protocols against coalitions of players that are incentivized to deviate for their
own benefit or to break the system, rather than just because of their faulty
nature. This rational agreement problem finds application in blockchains where


                                         2
participants can be modeled as players incentivized to gain valuable cryptocur-
rency assets. In 2020, these assets incentivized players to deviate from their
blockchain protocol by forcing a disagreement to fork the blockchain, leading
to a double spending of US$70, 000 in Bitcoin Gold1 and US$5.6 million in
Ethereum Classic2 . Solving rational agreement is key to avoid these losses be-
cause it ensures that players agree on a unique block at each index of the chain,
thus preventing these forks from being exploited to double spend. Interestingly,
some blockchains already require participants to deposit cryptocurrency assets
in the form of staking and these deposits could be used by the consensus proto-
col to incentivize their owners to behave. Unfortunately, these blockchains fork
in the presence of rational players and we are not aware of any solution to this
rational agreement problem.

1.1    Our result
In this paper, we show that a baiting strategy, that incentivize rational players to
bait deviating players into a trap, is necessary and sufficient to solve this rational
agreement problem by offering a consensus protocol that is robust to a coalition
of up to k rational players and t Byzantine players. Our first contribution is
thus to formalize the notion of a baiting strategy and show that this baiting
strategy is necessary to solve the rational agreement problem. Motivated by
open networks, where blockchains typically operate, and where the synchrony
assumption [19] in unrealistic, we then solve the rational agreement problem
without assuming a known bound on the delay of every message. As solving
the consensus problem is impossible with complete asynchrony [21], we consider
the partially synchronous model where there is an unknown bound on the delay
of messages [19]. This solution bypasses the well-known requirement of 2n/3
correct participants [32], by solving consensus when n > max( 32 k + 3t, 2(k + t)).
For example if n = 7 players, then our solution solves consensus with only 4
correct participants, hence tolerating k = 1 rational player and t = 2 Byzantine
players.
    We implement this solution in a new protocol, called Trap (Tackling
Rational Agreement through Persuasion), that is ǫ-(k, t)-robust when n >
max( 23 k + 3t, 2(k + t)). Trap rewards a single player to expose its coali-
tion by generating proofs-of-fraud with the Polygraph accountable consensus
protocol [13]. Making initially colluding players decide on whether to betray
the coalition regardless of the coalition behavior is analogous to reducing the
extensive-form game into a normal-form game for this particular decision. In
addition, if the reward for exposing the coalition is greater than the individual
payoff for causing a disagreement, rational players find that the coalition strat-
egy is strictly dominated by the baiting strategy in the extensive-form game.
This shows similarities with the prisoner’s dilemma, in which all rational players
prefer to betray the coalition than to collude.
  1 https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-gold-51-attacked-network-loses-70000-in-double-spends/
  2 https://news.bitcoin.com/5-6-million-stolen-as-etc-team-finally-acknowledge-the-51-attack-on-network/




                                            3
                        Byzantines    k rationals, of which m bait                     A ∩ B = ∅, partition of correct

                                 t       k−m                m                                  A                        B
   ➀ t + k lead A and B
      to disagreement                                                                             ➀ predec(vA )         ➀ predec(vB )
      on predecisions
➁ A and B cannot terminate                                                             A
                                                                                        )
                                                                                     v
without hearing from at least                                                    te (             ➁                     ➁
                                                                             fica
                                                                            i
     1 of the m baiters                                                   rt             )
                                                                       ce         e (v B
                                                                           fi cat
                                                                      e rti
 ➂ m baiters wait to receive                               ➂         c
                                                                                             share PoFs from {v , v
                                                                                                               A   B}
certificates to construct PoFs                              share PoFs
                                                                           from {vA , v           ➃                     ➃
                                                                                             B}


                           ➃ partitions of correct players A and B (i) discover disagreement
                           (ii) select a winner of the reward at random out of the m baiters,
  (iii) punish the rest of t + k − 1 deviants, and (iv) resolve the disagreement on predecisions to agree on decision


              Figure 1: Example execution of the Huntsman protocol. First, ➀ all t Byzan-
              tine and k rational players collude to cause a disagreement on the output of
              the accountable consensus protocol, resulting in A and B predeciding different
              outputs. Then, ➁ m of the k rational players decide to bait while executing the
              BFTCR protocol, preventing A and B from deciding their disagreeing predeci-
              sions. As such, ➂ the m baiters wait until they receive proof of the disagreement
              on predecisions, to then ➃ prove the disagreement committing to and revealing
              the proofs-of-fraud in the BFTCR protocol. Hence, neither A nor B decide
              their conflicting predecisions, but instead reward one of the m baiters, punish
              the rest of t + k − 1 players responsible for the disagreement on predecisions,
              and resolve the disagreement, deciding one of vA or vB , or, depending on the
              application, merging both.




                                                       4
    More specifically, our protocol “pre-decides” the decisions from Polygraph [13]
that it extends with the Byzantine Fault Tolerant Commit-Reveal protocol
(BFTCR), which consists of two reliable broadcasts and one additional broad-
cast. As we show in Figure 1, by offering a reward the Trap protocol can
convince m rational players to betray the coalition after they helped cause a
disagreement on predecisions. First, the coalition exposes itself causing a dis-
agreement on predecisions. Second, the m rational players from the coalition
that decide to betray are enough to pause termination of the BFTCR protocol.
Third, these players can wait to gather enough PoFs of the disagreement on
predecisions, which they will get by the property of accountability (since they
caused a disagreement on the output of the Polygraph protocol). Fourth and
finally, once they get PoFs to prove the disagreement to correct players and get
the reward, these m players commit and reveal the PoFs by sharing them during
the BFTCR protocol, after which one of them will be selected at random to get
the reward. We detail further this example in Appendix A.
    Adding this BFTCR phase ensures the existence of a baiting strategy
(baiting-dominance) and that the protocol still solves agreement even after
playing the baiting strategy (baiting-agreement). We also add an additional
property, lossfree-reward, which states that the increase in utility for baiting
rational players comes at no cost to non-deviating players. For this purpose, we
introduce a deposit per player, so that the system can always pay the reward by
taking the deposits of the proven coalition at no cost for non-deviating players.

1.2    Related work
Considering fault tolerant distributed protocols as games requires to cope with
a mixture of up to k rational players and t faulty players. The idea of mixing
rational players with faulty players has already been extensively explored in the
context of secret sharing and multi-party computation [33, 22, 16, 2]. In partic-
ular, the central third-party mediator that is typically relied upon was imple-
mented with synchronous cheap talks [2], that are communications of negligible
cost through private pairwise channels. This extension was indeed illustrated
with an ǫ-(k, t)-robust secret sharing protocol where n > k + 2t. It was later
shown [1] that mediators could be implemented with asynchronous cheap talks
in an ǫ-(k, t)-robust protocol when n > 3(k + t). This adaptation makes it
impossible to devise even a 1-immune protocol that would solve the consensus
problem [32] as the communication model becomes asynchronous [21]. In this
paper, we focus instead on the partially synchronous model, where the bound
on the delay of messages is unknown [19], to design a protocol that solves con-
sensus among n players, where up to t are Byzantine players and k are rational
players.
    Consensus has been explored in the context of game theory. Some works
focused on the conditions under which termination and validity is obtained for a
non-negligible cost of communication and/or local computation [38, 7], without
considering the incentives for rational players to cause a disagreement. This
incentive is quite apparent in the blockchain context, where Bitcoin users hacked


                                        5
the network to double spend by simply leading sets of players to a disagreement
(or fork) for long enough3 . Some results consider the problem of consensus
in the presence of rational players but do not consider failures [24]. Leader
election [3], which can be used to solve consensus indirectly, and consensus
proposals [26] focus on ensuring fairness defined as all players having an equal
probability of their proposal being decided. Some proposals study consensus
and mix faulty players with rational players [5, 9], however, they consider the
synchronous communication model.
    Several research results focus more particularly on agreement, with some
deriving from the BAR (Byzantine-Altruistic-Rational) model. However, these
works considered either no Byzantine players [25, 20], no coalitions of rational
players [6], synchrony [25, 27, 39, 28] or solution preference [27]. By assuming
a larger payoff for agreeing than for disagreeing, solution preference requires
that rational players never have an incentive to sabotage agreement. To the
best of our knowledge, we present the first work that considers bounds for the
robustness of agreement against coalitions of Byzantine and rational players in
partial synchrony.
    The baiting strategy that we introduced to reward traitors of a coalition is
very similar to the betrayal used in the context of verifiable cloud-computing for
counter-collusion contracts, assuming that the third party hosting the contracts
is trusted [18]. Our BFTCR protocol presents a novel implementation to select
the winner of the baiting reward without a trusted third party.
    There are a number of advantages of BFTCR compared to other state-of-
the-art protocols. One may think that a solution similar to submarine com-
mitments [11] would work as well by, for example, hiding the proofs-of-fraud in
a decision. However, such a solution does not prevent Byzantine players from
always hiding in a submarine commitment their proofs-of-fraud, and revealing
them only if a rational player reveals their submarine commitment, which can
act as a deterrent for rational players to not betray the coalition. Additionally,
other protocols based on zero-knowledge proofs [31] explicitly reveal the exis-
tence of an information to prove, which gives an additional advantage to other
players in the coalition to also claim the same knowledge.
    State-of-the-art verifiable secret-sharing (VSS) schemes [17, 30, 37, 4] are not
a good fit either, since there are no secret-sharing schemes in partial synchrony
that tolerate coalitions of size greater than a third of the participants. To the
best of our knowledge, BFTCR is the first protocol that implements baiting
strategies for consensus tolerating coalitions of
                                                 up to k rational and t Byzantine
players as long as n > max 23 k + 3t, 2(k + t) .

1.3    Roadmap
The rest of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 presents our model and
preliminary definitions, Section 3 introduces the definition of a baiting strategy
and shows that it is impossible to solve the rational agreement problem without
  3 https://www.cnet.com/news/hacker-swipes-83000-from-bitcoin-mining-pools/.




                                         6
a baiting strategy, in Section 4 we present the Trap protocol and its correctness,
and we finally conclude in Section 5.


2    Preliminaries
We consider a partially synchronous communication network, in which messages
can be delayed by up to a bound that is unknown. For this purpose, we adapt
the synchronous and asynchronous models of Abraham et al. [2, 1] to partial
synchrony. We consider a game played by a set N of |N | = n players, each
of type in T = {Byzantine, rational, correct}. The game is in extensive form,
described by a game tree whose leaves are labeled by the utilities ui of each
player i. We introduce the scheduler as an additional player that will model
the delay on messages derived from partial synchrony. We assume that players
alternate making moves with the scheduler : first the scheduler moves, then
a player moves, then the scheduler moves and so on. The scheduler’s move
consists of choosing a player i to move next and a set of messages in transit
to i that will be delivered just before i moves (so that i’s move can depend
on all the messages i delivers). Every non-leaf node is associated with either a
player or the scheduler. The scheduler is bound to two constraints. First, the
scheduler can choose to delay any message msg up to a bound, known only to
the scheduler, before which he must have chosen all recipients of msg to move
and provided them with this message, so that they deliver it before making a
move. Second, the scheduler must eventually choose all players that are still
playing. That is, if player i is playing at time e, then i is chosen to play at time
e′ ≥ e.
    Each player i has some local state at each node, which translates into the
initial information known by i, the messages i sent and received at the time that
i moves, and the moves that i has made. The nodes where a player i moves are
further partitioned into information sets, which are sets of nodes in the game
tree that contain the same local state for the same player i, in that i cannot
distinguish them. We assume that the scheduler has complete information, so
that the scheduler’s information sets consist of the singletons.
    Since we do not assume synchrony, we need our game to be able to continue
even if a faulty player decides not to reply. As such, w.l.o.g. we assume that
players that decide not to play will at least play the default-move, which consists
of notifying the scheduler that this player will not move, so that the game
continues with the scheduler choosing the next player to move. Thus, in every
node where the scheduler is to play a move, the scheduler can play any move that
combines a player and a subset of messages that such player can deliver before
playing. Then, the selected player moves, after which the scheduler selects again
the next player for the next node, and the messages it receives, and so on. The
scheduler alternates thus with one player at each node down a path in the game
tree until reaching a leaf. A run of the game is then a downward path in the
tree from the root to a leaf.
Strategies. We denote the set of actions of a player i (or the scheduler) as Ai


                                         7
(or As ), and a strategy σi for that set of actions is denoted as a function from
i’s information sets to a distribution over the actions. We denote the set of all
possible strategies of player i as Si . Let SI = Πi∈I Si and AI = Πi∈I Ai for a
subset I ⊆ N . Let S = SN with A−I = Πi6∈I Ai and S−I = Πi6∈I Si . A joint
strategy #»
          σ = (σ0 , σ1 , ..., σn−1 ) draws thus a distribution over paths in the game
tree (given the scheduler’s strategy σs ), where ui ( #»       σ , σs ) is player’s i expected
utility if #»
           σ is played along with a strategy for the scheduler σs . A strategy
                                              #»
θi strictly dominates τi for i if for all φ −i ∈ S−i and all strategies σs of the
                               #»                 #»
scheduler we have ui (θi , φ −i , σs ) > ui (τi , φ −i , σs ).
    Given some desired functionality F , a protocol is the recommended joint
strategy #»σ whose outcome satisfies F for all strategies σs of the scheduler,
and an associated game Γ for that protocol is defined as all possible deviations
from the protocol [2]. In this case, we say that the protocol #»            σ implements the
functionality. Note that both the scheduler and the players can use probabilistic
strategies.
Failure model. We set t0 = ⌈ n3 ⌉ − 1 for the rest of this paper and k players
out of n can be rational while t ≤ t0 can be Byzantine; the rest of the players
are correct. Correct players follow the protocol: the expected utility of correct
player i is greater than 0 for any run in which the outcome satisfies consensus,
and 0 for any other run. Rational players can deviate to follow the strategy that
yields them the greatest expected utility at any time they are to move, while
Byzantine players can deviate in any way, even not replying at all (apart from
notifying the scheduler that they will not move). Rational players have greater
utility for outcomes in which they caused a disagreement than from outcomes
that satisfy consensus, but have no interest in deviating from consensus for
anything else, in that they prefer to terminate and to guarantee validity. We
will detail further the utilities of rational players in Section 4.3.
    We assume that if a coalition manages to cause a disagreement, then it
obtains a payoff of at most G, which we call the total gain. Nevertheless, this
total gain may be, for example, the entire market value of the system. In a
payment system application in which players agree on a set of transactions to
be decided, the total gain G is exactly the sum of all the amounts spent in all
transactions. We also assume, w.l.o.g., that a coalition with k rational players
and t Byzantine players split equally the total gain into k parts, which we call
the gain g = G/k, that is, Byzantine players are willing to give all the total gain
from causing a disagreement to the rational players that collude (to incentivize
the deviation for these rational players). Note that a protocol that tolerates a
maximum gain G equally split into k parts also tolerates any gain such that the
maximum share of the split is G/k, but we assume the equal split for ease of
exposition. We speak of the disagreeing strategy as the strategy in which players
collude to produce a disagreement, and of a coalition disagreeing to refer to a
coalition that plays the disagreeing strategy. A disagreement of consensus can
mean two or more disjoint groups of non-deviating players deciding two or more
separate, conflicting decisions [36]. For ease of exposition, we consider in this
work only disagreements into two values. Nonetheless, if the size of the coalition
is less than half the total number of players k + t < n/2 (as is the case for the

                                              8
work that we present) then the coalition can only cause a disagreement into
two values [36], whereas greater sizes of a coalition can cause disagreements into
multiple values [34].
    We let rational players in a coalition and Byzantine players (in or outside
the coalition) know the types of all players, so that they know which players
are the other Byzantine players, rational players and correct players, while the
rest of the players only know the upper bounds on the number of rational and
Byzantine players, i.e., k and t respectively, and their own individual type (that
is, whether they are rational, Byzantine or correct).
Cheap talks. As we are in a fully distributed system, without a trusted central
entity like a mediator, we assume cheap-talks, that is, private pairwise commu-
nication channels. We also assume negligible communication cost through these
channels. Non-Byzantine players are also only interested in reaching consen-
sus, and not in the number of messages exchanged. Similarly, we assume the
cost of performing local computations (such as validating proposals, or verifying
signatures) to be negligible.
Cryptography. We require the use of standard cryptography, for which we
reuse the assumptions of Goldreich et al. [23]: polynomially bounded players
and the enhanced trapdoor permutations. In practice, these two assumptions
mean that players can sign unforgeable messages, and that they can perform
oblivious transfer. Each player has a public key and a private key, and public
keys are common knowledge.
Robustness. Given that a Nash equilibrium only protects against single-player
deviations, and our distributed system may be susceptible of a coalition of k
rational and t Byzantine players, it is important to consider tolerating multi-
player deviations. We thus restate Abraham’s et al. [2] definitions of t-immunity,
ǫ-(k, t)-robustness and the most recent definition of k-resilient equilibrium [1].
The notion of k-resilience is motivated in distributed computing by the need to
tolerate a coalition of k rational players that can all coordinate actions. A joint
strategy is k-resilient if not all rational members of a coalition of size at most k
can gain greater utility by deviating in a coordinated way.
Definition 2.1 (k-resilient equilibrium). A joint strategy #»  σ ∈ S is a k-resilient
equilibrium (resp. strongly k-resilient equilibrium) if, for all K ⊆ N with |K| ≤
k, all #»
       τ K ∈ SK , all strategies σs of the scheduler, and for some (resp. all) i ∈ K
we have ui ( #»
             σ K , #»
                   σ −K , σs ) ≥ ui ( #»
                                      τ K , #»
                                            σ −K , σs ).
    The notion of t-immunity is motivated in distributed algorithms by the need
to tolerate t Byzantine players. An equilibrium #»  σ is t-immune if non-Byzantine
players still prefer to follow #»
                               σ despite the deviations of up to t Byzantine players.
Definition 2.2 (t-immunity). A joint strategy #»         σ ∈ S is t-immune if, for all
T ⊆ N with |T | ≤ t, all #»  τ ∈ ST , all i 6∈ T and all strategies of the scheduler σs ,
we have ui ( #»
             σ −T , #»
                    τ T , σs ) ≥ ui ( #»
                                      σ , σs ).
   A joint strategy is an ǫ-(k, t)-robust equilibrium if no coalition of k rational
players can coordinate to increase their expected utility by ǫ regardless of the


                                           9
arbitrary behavior of up to t Byzantine players, even if the Byzantine play-
ers join their coalition. We illustrate it however with ǫ because of the use of
cryptography, that is, in order to account for the (negligible) probability of the
coalition breaking cryptography, as was done previously [2]:
Definition 2.3 (ǫ-(k, t)-robust equilibrium). A joint strategy #» σ ∈ S is an ǫ-
(k, t)-robust (resp. strongly ǫ-(k, t)-robust) equilibrium if for all K, T ⊆ N such
                                                                                   #»
that K ∩ T = ∅, |K| ≤ k, and |T | ≤ t, for all #»               τ T ∈ ST , for all φ K ∈ SK ,
for some (resp. all) i ∈ K, and all strategies of the scheduler σs , we have
                                            #»
ui ( #»
     σ −T , #»
            τ T , σs ) ≥ ui ( #»
                              σ N −(K∪T ) , φ K , #»
                                                  τ T , σs ) − ǫ. We speak instead of a (k, t)-
robust equilibrium if ǫ = 0.
     We use a recent definition of k-resilient equilibrium [1], which slightly dif-
fers from the definition of an ǫ-(k, t)-robust equilibrium. We define here strong
resilience and strong robustness to refer to the stronger versions of these prop-
erties [2]. Byzantine fault tolerance in distributed computing is equivalent to
our definition of t-immunity in game theory.
     Given some game Γ and desired functionality F , we say that a protocol #»     σ is
a k-resilient protocol for F if #»
                                 σ implements F and is a k-resilient equilibrium.
For example, if #»σ is a k-resilient protocol for the consensus problem, then in
all runs of #»
             σ , every non-deviating player terminates and agrees on the same
valid value. We extend this notation to t-immunity and ǫ-(k, t)-robustness. The
required functionality of this paper is thus reaching agreement.
Punishment strategy. We also restate the definition of a punishment strat-
egy [2] as a threat that correct and rational players can play in order to prevent
other rational players from deviating. The punishment strategy guarantees that
if k rational players deviate, then t + 1 players can lower the utility of these ra-
tional players by playing the punishment strategy.
Definition 2.4 ((k, t)-punishment strategy). A joint strategy #»        ρ is a (k, t)-
punishment strategy with respect to #»  σ if for all K, T, P ⊆ N such that K, T, P
                                                                      #»
are disjoint, |K| ≤ k, |T | ≤ t, |P | > t, for all #»
                                                    τ ∈ ST , for all φ K ∈ SK , for
all i ∈ K, and all strategies of the scheduler σs , we have ui ( σ −T , #»
                                                                    #»     τ T , σs ) >
    #»              #» #» #»
u (σ
 i   N −(K∪T ∪P ) , φ , τ , ρ , σ ).
                       K    T     P   s

    Intuitively, a punishment strategy represents a threat to prevent rational
players from deviating, in that if they deviate, then players in P can play the
punishment strategy #»ρ and the deviating rational players decrease their utility
with respect to following #»σ . For example, crime sentences are an effective
punishment strategy against committing crimes. Not terminating a protocol if
just one player deviates can also be a punishment strategy against deviating
from the protocol.
Accountability. Previous work introduced signatures in consensus protocol
messages, guaranteeing that for a disagreement to occur, at least t0 + 1 players
must sign conflicting messages, and once these messages are discovered by a
correct player, such player can prove the fraudsters to the rest of correct play-
ers through Proofs-of-Fraud (PoFs) [12, 34]. We also adapt to this model the
property of accountability, recently defined for consensus [12, 13]:

                                              10
Definition 2.5 (accountability). Let #» σ be a protocol that implements agree-
ment. Suppose that a disagreement takes place, then #»   σ is accountable if all
correct players will eventually gather enough proof that at least t0 + 1 players
deviated to cause the disagreement.
Rational agreement. In the remainder, we are interested in proposing a con-
sensus protocol that is immune to up to t0 Byzantine failures and robust to a
coalition of up to k rational and t Byzantine players, so we restate the Byzantine
consensus problem [32] in the presence of rational players: The Byzantine con-
sensus problem is, given n players, each with an initial value, to ensure (i) agree-
ment in that no two non-deviating players decide different values; (ii) validity
in that the decided value has to be proposed; and (iii) termination in that
eventually every non-deviating player decides.
Definition 2.6 (Rational Agreement). Consider a system with n players, a
protocol #»σ solves the rational agreement problem if it implements consensus,
and is t0 -immune and ǫ-(k, t)-robust for some k, t > 0 such that n ≤ 3(k + t).


3     Rational Agreement Impossibility without a
      Baiting Strategy
In this section, we introduce a baiting strategy as a particular case of punishment
strategy and show that it is necessary to devise a consensus protocol robust to
a coalition of k rational players and t Byzantine players.
    Our solution to agreement in the presence of rational and Byzantine players,
presented in Section 4.3, consists of rewarding rational players for betraying the
coalition. One may wonder whether rewarding rational players in a coalition
is the only way to obtain ǫ-(k, t)-robustness that tolerates coalitions of size
n ≤ 3(k +t) in partial synchrony. To demonstrate the need for a reward, we first
formalize a type of (k, t)-punishment strategy, which we call a (k, t, m)-baiting
strategy. A (k, t, m)-baiting strategy is a (k − m, t)-punishment strategy such
that k ≥ m > 0, and these m rational players prefer to actually play the baiting
strategy than to deviate with the rest of the players in the coalition. That is, m
players of the coalition have to play the baiting strategy for it to succeed, and
at least m rational players in the coalition prefer to play the baiting strategy
than to deviate with the coalition. An example is offering a crime reduction for
a criminal to cooperate with law enforcement into catching the criminal group
to which it belongs.
Definition 3.1 ((k, t, m)-baiting strategy). A joint strategy #»    η is a (k, t, m)-
baiting strategy with respect to a strategy #» σ if #»
                                                     η is a (k − m, t)-punishment
strategy with respect to #»σ , with 0 < m ≤ k and for all K, T, P ⊆ N such that
 K ∩ T = ∅, |P ∩ K| ≥ m, P ∩ T = ∅, |K\P | ≤ k − m, |T | ≤ t, |P | > t, for all
 #»           #»                             #»
 τ ∈ ST , all φ K\P ∈ SK\P − { #» σ K }, all θ P ∈ SP , all i ∈ P , and all strategies
 of the scheduler σs , we have:
                  #»                                          #»          #»
u ( #»
 i  σN −(K∪T ∪P ),φ K\P  , #»
                           τ , #»
                            T  η , σ ) ≥ u ( #»
                                P    s     i  σN −(K∪T ∪P ) ,φ K\P  , #»
                                                                      τ , θ , σ ).
                                                                      T    P   s



                                          11
Additionally, we speak of a strong (k, t, m)-baiting strategy in the particular
case where for all rational coalitions K ⊆ N such that |K| ≤ k, |K ∩ P | ≥
              #»                        P          #»            #»      #»
m and all φ K\P ∈ SK\P we have:           i∈K ui ( σ N −(K∪P ) , φ K\P , η P , σs ) ≤
P          #»
  i∈K ui ( σ , σs ).

    A baiting strategy illustrates a situation where at least m rational players in
the coalition may be interested in baiting other k + t− m rational and Byzantine
players into a trap: the k + t of them collude to deviate initially, just so that
these m players can prove such deviation by playing the baiting strategy, and get
a reward for exposing this deviation. Such a strategy has a significant impact in
a protocol to implement agreement. A strong baiting strategy defines a baiting
strategy in which the fact that m deviating players play the baiting strategy
does not yield greater payoff to the entire coalition as a whole (if such coalition
was made only by rationals), compared to following the protocol. This prevents
a coalition of rational players from colluding together so as to play the baiting
strategy on themselves only with the purpose of splitting the baiting reward
among the colluding members. Notwithstanding, neither a baiting strategy nor
a strong baiting strategy show that if these m players play the baiting strategy,
then the protocol implements the desired functionality. We illustrate the efficacy
of baiting strategies to influence the outcome of a protocol in the example of
the rational generals, shown in Figure 2.
Impossibility result. The reason why a (k, t, m)-baiting strategy is relevant to
the consensus problem is that without such a strategy it is not possible to obtain
a consensus protocol that is (k, t)-robust where k > 0. We show this result in
Theorem 3.2. The proof is similar to that of the impossibility of t-immune
consensus under partial synchrony for t > t0 [19], since a partition of rational
and Byzantine players can exploit two disjoint partitions of correct players to
lead them to different decisions. Let us recall that we do not assume solution
preference, and thus the payoffs from a disagreement can be singificantly greater
than those of agreeing for rational players. For the proof of Theorem 3.2, we
first show the more general proof of Lemma 3.1.
Lemma 3.1. It is impossible to obtain a protocol #»  σ that implements agreement,
is t0 -immune and (k, t)-robust, k ≥ 0 and t = max(t0 − k + 1, 0) unless there is
                                             σ , for m > k+t−n
a (k, t, m)-baiting strategy with respect to #»             2   + t0 .
Proof. We refer to Dwork et al.’s [19] work for the impossibility of increasing
t > t0 and obtaining agreement (i.e., for k = 0). For k > 0 with t ≤ t0 , assume
the contrary: let #» σ be a protocol such that there is no (k, t, m)-baiting strategy
with respect to #»σ and #»σ is (k, t)-robust, for t = max(t0 − k + 1, 0), k > 0. Since
the protocol is t0 -immune and it works under partial synchrony, the protocol
must not require more than n − t0 players participating in it in order to take
a decision, or else the Byzantine players could prevent termination. Consider a
partition of the network between 4 disjoint subsets N = K ∪ A ∪ B ∪ F , where
K are the rational players (there is at least one), F are the Byzantine players,
i.e., |F | + |K| = t + k ≥ t0 + 1, and A and B are the rest of the players such that
|A|+|B| ≤ n−t0 −1 and both |A|+|F |+|K| ≥ n−t0 and |B|+|F |+|K| ≥ n−t0

                                         12
                                   #»
hold (recall t0 = ⌈ n3 ⌉ − 1). Let θ be the strategy in which the rational players
in K deviate with Byzantine players in F and achieve a disagreement between
players in A and players in B. If the players in F and K are all Byzantine and
rational players, then such a disagreement is always possible and the utility for
each rational player is, by definition of the model, greater than that of reaching
agreement. Notice also that since t = max(t0 − k + 1, 0), if m > k+t−n         2   + t0
rational players do not deviate to cause such disagreement, we have that at least
one of |A| + |F | + |K| − m < n − t0 and |B| + |F | + |K| − m < n − t0 holds, or
both: for this value of m the deviants cannot cause a disagreement. However,
this is not true if instead m ≤ k+t−n    2    + t0 . It follows that it is necessary to
encourage at least m > k+t−n  2   +  t 0  rational  players to not deviate into causing
a disagreement, which means, by definition, that a (k, t, m)-baiting strategy is
necessary.
Theorem 3.2. It is impossible to obtain a protocol #»  σ that implements rational
agreement unless there is a (k, t, m)-baiting strategy with respect to #»
                                                                       σ , for m >
k+t−n
   2  + t 0 .
Proof. By definition, every (k, t)-robust protocol for n ≤ 3(k + t) must also be
(k, t)-robust, for some k ≥ 0 and t = max(t0 − k + 1, 0). Therefore it derives
from Lemma 3.1.
    Theorem 3.2 shows the need for a baiting strategy to solve rational agree-
ment. In Section 4.2 we show the implementation of an additional phase to an
accountable consensus protocol in order to provide the functionality of a bait-
ing strategy. In Section 4.3 we illustrate the values of a reward and deposit per
player to make a strong baiting strategy that at least m rational players will
play.




                                          13
Rational generals example. We illustrate the intuition behind baiting
strategies with an example inspired from the Byzantine generals problem [32],
that we refer to as the ‘rational generals’ problem: suppose n = 7 Ottoman
generals need to agree on whether to attack or retreat. If all generals agree on
attacking, they will succeed, if they agree on retreat, they can succeed another
day. However, if only some of the generals attack, they will lose. There are
two Byzantine generals, i.e., t = 2 , whose goal is for the Ottomans to disagree
on their decision for them to lose, and another rational general, i.e., k = 1,
who has been offered a bribe G in order to contribute to the disagreement,
but who is willing to betray the Byzantines for a greater income from the
Ottomans. Because of accountability, the generals will eventually be able to
track the disagreement to both the t Byzantine and k rational generals, but by
then the k rational generals will be enjoying its reward G in Constantinople,
out of reach.
   The generals suspect that there might be a bribed rational general (k = 1).
In an attempt from them to make the rational general talk, they offer a reward
R > G as a bounty for proving the fraud of every other Byzantine and rational
general, that is, if the rational general reveals its identity and that of the t
Byzantine with proofs, then this rational general is spared and rewarded with
R, while the t Byzantine generals lose all of their capital (i.e., properties and
savings) that they own in the Ottoman empire. In this case, the rational
general sees a greater incentive to expose both himself and the Byzantine
generals. This is an example of a baiting strategy. Additionally, the Ottoman
generals will pay R with the capital taken from the t Byzantine generals, so
the Ottoman empire will not even pay for the reward.
   Notice that Ottoman generals must guarantee to the rational general that
they will recognize him as the first to expose the coalition (and the only
rightful owner of the reward), so that the rational general is not influenced
by a threat from the Byzantine generals to steal the reward if he betrays
the coalition. That is, the rational general will only bait the coalition if the
protocol ensures that the Byzantine generals will not be able to steal the
reward from the rational general after seeing that he betrayed the coalition.
This is in order to prevent the Byzantine generals from rushing to bait as
soon as they learn the rational general is starting to bait, creating a situation
in which both Byzantine and rational generals seem to be legitimate baiters
of the coalition.
    In the extensive game, this means that the rational general must first
behave and make moves as if he would cause the disagreement. Then, the
rational general will only bait if he gets both enough evidence of the fraud of
the deviants and assurance that the Byzantine generals will not outpace him
and steal the reward.

                     Figure 2: Rational generals example.



                                       14
4     Trap: Reaching Rational Agreement
In this section, we present the Trap (Tackling Rational Agreement through
Persuasion) protocol, the first protocol to solve the rational agreement problem.
The Trap protocol comprises three components:
    1. A financial component, consisting of a deposit per player L, taken at the
       start of the protocol from each participating player, and a reward R, which
       is given to a player in the event that it provides PoFs for a disagreement
       on predecisions.
    2. An accountable consensus component, that pre-decides outputs from an
       accountable consensus protocol.
    3. A baiting component, embodied in a novel Byzantine Fault Tolerant
       commit-reveal (BFTCR) protocol that executes after the accountable con-
       sensus protocol. This component terminates either deciding one output
       (predecision) of the accountable consensus protocol, or resolving a dis-
       agreement on predecisions by rewarding one of the deviating players that
       exposed the disagreement and punishing the rest of deviating players.
We first provide an overview of the properties that we aim at for the Trap
protocol in Section 4.1, and the possible runs of the game that derive from
implementing a strong baiting strategy for the rational agreement problem with
the aforementioned components. We then introduce and prove the correctness of
the baiting component, the BFTCR protocol, in Section 4.2. Finally, we analyze
the financial component, that is, the specific values of reward and deposits, in
Section 4.3. The accountable consensus component can be any accountable
consensus protocol [12, 13, 35, 14], and thus we treat this component as a black
box, for the sake of generality.

4.1     Overview: consensus with a baiting strategy
We proved in Section 3 that we need a baiting strategy for a protocol to solve
the rational agreement problem.
    Before we present the implementation of such a baiting strategy in Sec-
tion 4.2, with additional configurations of the required deposits and reward
sizes in Section 4.3, we present in this section the basics of our baiting strategy.
For this purpose, we focus first on the properties that we aim at for such a bait-
ing strategy. Then, we showcase all the possible runs of a protocol for consensus
that provides such a strong baiting strategy.
    Given a protocol #»  σ that implements accountable consensus and is t0 -
immune, we will extend it to implement the rational agreement problem, in
that we will prove the three following properties:

• Baiting-dominance: There is a (k, t, m)-baiting strategy #»
                                                           η with respect to #»
                                                                             σ,
        k+t−n
for m > 2 + t0 .


                                        15
• Baiting-agreement: #»
                     η implements agreement.
• Lossfree-reward : #»
                    η is a strong baiting strategy.

     Baiting-dominance states the necessary condition that a baiting strategy
exists, while baiting-agreement guarantees that playing such a baiting strategy
still leads to agreement. Lossfree-reward guarantees that such a baiting strategy
is a strong baiting strategy. Coming back to the rational generals example of
Figure 2, baiting-dominance states the existence of the reward for the rational
general, baiting-agreement guarantees that generals will still decide whether to
attack or retreat after paying the reward to the rational general, and lossfree-
reward guarantees that only the slashed capital of the Byzantine generals will
be used to pay the reward to the rational general.
Reward for baiting. Since the protocol is accountable, we add a baiting reward
R for player i if i can prove to the rest of the players that a coalition of at least
t0 + 1 players are trying to cause a disagreement, but before they succeed at
causing the disagreement. If multiple players are eligible for the baiting reward,
then only one is chosen at random to win the reward, and the rest are treated as
fraudsters that did not bait. We select the winner at random in an additional
winner consensus in which the winner is decided from among the proposed
candidates to win from correct replicas in this winner consensus. We explain
further the winner consensus later in this section. Players can prove that a
coalition is trying to cause a disagreement through PoFs which undeniably show
two conflicting messages signed by the same set of players. The reward is only
given to i if i exposes this coalition before the coalition causes the disagreement
(i.e., before both partitions of correct players decide different decisions).
Funding the reward with deposits. we require all players to place a min-
imum deposit L. We also require such deposit to be big enough so that the
deposit taken from the exposed coalition is enough to pay the reward, satisfying
lossfree-reward. Our goal is to set R and L so that we implement a baiting
strategy for a set M of rational players in the coalition, such that if others
in the coalition bait, then for all i ∈ M , player i is better off also trying to
bait and getting the reward, while if the rest of the players in the coalition do
not bait, then if i baits then i gets the greatest expected utility that it can in
that information set. We analyze in Theorem 4.4 the required values for such
deposit and reward necessary to incentivize at least |M | = m > k+t−n      2    + t0
rational players in a coalition to follow a baiting strategy, depending on the size
k + t of the coalition and on the maximum total gain from disagreeing G. For
now, however, let us ignore the values of L and R and focus on the protocol
that solves the rational agreement problem, by assuming that these values of L
and R are enough to make m > k+t−n     2   + t0 rational players bait the coalition,
instead of terminating a disagreement. We will come back to specify proper
values for L and R in Section 4.3. If these PoFs expose at least t0 + 1 players
including the winner of the baiting reward R, then the t0 (or more) remaining
colluding players lose the deposit amount L.
Dominating disagreements. We explore here the possible runs, assuming


                                         16
that we already have such a baiting strategy, and what each of these runs means
for the payoffs of a rational player i:
   1. Rational players including i contribute to reaching agreement and follow
the protocol #»
             σ , getting some utility ui ( #»
                                           σ −T , #»
                                                  τ T ) ≥ ǫ where ǫ > 0.
    2. Some rational players collude with i and deviate to disagree, playing
         #»
strategy φ with some Byzantine players T and other rational players K such
                                                                  #»
that |K ∪ T | ≥ n/3, K ∩ T = ∅, obtaining utility ui ( #»
                                                       σ N −K−T , φ K∪T ) = g.
      3. Player i deviates to bait other rational players into colluding with some
Byzantine players such that |K ∪ T | ≥ n/3, K ∩ T = ∅, and this de-
viation consists of playing strategy #»   η to expose the colluding players via
PoFs and obtain the baiting reward. As a result, player i obtains utility
                #»
ui ( #»
     σ N −K−T , φ K∪T −M , #»
                           η M ) = p(m)R − q(m)L, where M is the set of players
of the coalition that bait, i.e., i ∈ M , with |M | = m. p(m) = 1/m represents
the probability of winning the reward, while q(m) = 1 − p(m) = (m − 1)/m the
probability of not winning it after baiting.
    4. Player i deviates to disagree only to suffer a trap baited by another ratio-
                                                                      #»
nal (or group of rational players), obtaining utility ui ( #»
                                                           σ N −K−T , φ K∪T −M , #»
                                                                                 η M) ≤
−L.
    5. In any run where the protocol does not terminate, player i obtains nega-
tive utility.
   6. Player i contributes to reaching agreement but a coalition causes a dis-
agreement. In this case, i is one of the victims of a disagreement (for example,
a double-spending). Hence, i obtains negative utility.
   Notice that the runs 4, 5 and 6 are strictly dominated by run 1 (following the
protocol). Our goal is to make runs represented by 3 runs that also implement
agreement and that strictly dominate runs represented by 2.

4.2    Baiting component: the BFTCR protocol
In this section, we present the first implementation of a baiting strategy for
rational agreement. As such, we extend an accountable consensus protocol with
a Byzantine Fault Tolerant commit-reveal (BFTCR) phase in order to solve
consensus even if there is a disagreement at consensus level, if at least m rational
players decide to betray the coalition in exchange for trying to win a reward.
We show in Algorithm 1 the BFTCR phase. As such, we speak of a predecision
for a decision of the accountable consensus protocol, whereas a decision now
refers to the outcome of the BFTCR protocol. The BFTCR phase consists of 5
main parts:
   1. A reliable broadcast, in which players share their encrypted commitment
      (line 15),


                                         17
  2. a second reliable broadcast, in which players share the first (n − t0 ) en-
     crypted commitments that they delivered in the first reliable broadcast
     (line 19),
  3. a regular broadcast, in which players share the key to reveal their com-
     mitment (line 23),
  4. an additional consensus to select the winner of the reward, if some players
     reveal a list of PoFs (line 39), and
  5. a slashing of the deposits from the fraudsters, payment of the reward to
     the winner and resolution of the disagreement on predecisions (line 40).
Commit and reveal. The purpose of the first group of reliable broadcasts
is to reliably broadcast the encrypted PoFs, should a player own them, or an
encrypted hash of a predecision otherwise. We say that the commitment is the
encrypted content that each player decides to broadcast in this first reliable
broadcast. In line 19 each player i then starts the second reliable broadcast by
broadcasting a list of the first (n − t0 ) delivered commitments that i delivered
in the first reliable broadcast. The purpose of the calls to broadcast on lines 23
and 25 is to deliver the keys to decrypt the encrypted messages. A player i
thus reveals his commitment by broadcasting the key. A player i decrypts the
commitment of player j in line 26. Then, player i adds this decrypted message
to the list of decided hashes in lines 28 to 31, or to the list of PoFs received in
lines 33 to 35.
Termination. The BFTCR phase of the Trap protocol terminates in one of
two ways:

    • either there is no disagreement on predecisions, and then the protocol
terminates when at least (n − t0 ) messages are decrypted with the same hash
of the predecisions in line 31;
    • or some players reveal a disagreement on predecisions through PoFs, and
then the protocol terminates when at least t0 + 1 messages are decrypted (with-
out counting players that are proven to be false through a PoF) with a reward
to a chosen baiter and a punishment to the remaining players that are listed in
the PoFs from lines 36 to 40.
    Note that accountability does not guarantee that a baiter will gather enough
PoFs before a disagreement takes place. We prove that baiters will gather
enough PoFs before a disagreement takes place as part of the proof of Theo-
rem 4.2. The idea is that m rational players will wait to receive enough PoFs
to be able to commit to bait, where m is big enough to prevent termination of
either of the partitions of correct players.
Valid candidates of the winner consensus. We define a valid candidate to
win the reward as a member of a deviating coalition that committed to bait the
coalition (by sending a commitment to a list of PoFs of the coalition in line 15)
independently of whether other m players of the coalition also committed to bait,


                                        18
for m > k+t−n2    + t0 . The objective of the BFTCR protocol is to distinguish
valid candidates from players who try to win the reward only after they learn
that the disagreement will not succeed. A correct player i considers a baiter
j as a valid candidate if i can see j’s commitment to bait in at least t0 + 1
messages from the second reliable broadcast. We refer to this t0 + 1 messages
as a proof-of-baiting (PoB). The BFTCR protocol selects the winner of the bait
among the list of valid candidates by executing an additional consensus, in the
call to select_winner in line 39, in which all participating players propose the
PoFs they know about and the valid candidates, along with the PoBs. We detail
further this call later in this section.
    Note that a rational player i that commits to bait a coalition may deviate
from Algorithm 1 in order to hinder other deviants from becoming valid can-
didates after i reveals its commitment. This is because this way i maximizes
its chances of winning the reward (by minimizing the number of valid candi-
dates for the reward). This is an expected deviation of a baiting rational player,
which consists on waiting to deliver as many messages from the second reliable
broadcast as possible from both partitions of correct players that suffered the
disagreement on predecisions, and we show the correctness of this approach as
part of the proof of Theorem 4.4.
Correctness and randomness of the winner consensus. We show in
Theorem 4.5 that no deviating player can win the reward without being a valid
candidate, i.e., no player can bait and win the reward after learning that other
m (or more) players baited. Additionally, note that the winner consensus solves
consensus for n > 9/5(k + t) because at least t0 + 1 provably fraudulent players
of the coalition will not participate in it, as has already been shown [34], and we
consider n > 2(k+t). That is, at most n′ = n−(t0 +1) < 2n/3 players participate
in the winner consensus. Since the maximum coalition size is k + t < n/2,
then the remaining players of the coalition that could participate in the winner
consensus are t′ = n/2 − (t0 + 1) < n/6, and thus t′ < n′ /3 and the winner
consensus solves consensus. Furthermore, the winner consensus only terminates
once at least n−t′ proposals have been decided, which can be optimized through
a democratic consensus protocol [15, 12, 13, 34]. Finally, after n − t′ proposals
are decided upon, the participants execute an iteration of a random beacon that
tolerates t′ < n′ /3 Byzantine faults [37, 17, 30], in order to select the winner of
the baiting reward randomly from among any of the valid candidates that were
in any of the decided proposals.
    Following the winner consensus, in line 40, fraudsters are punished and the
baiter is rewarded, respectively. The call to resolve(...) resolves the two disagree-
ing predecisions by deterministically choosing one of them (i.e., lexicographical
order) or, depending on the application, merging both.
Resolving a disagreement on consensus predecisions with BFTCR.
It is clear that if there is no disagreement on the predecisions, the BFTCR
phase will terminate and satisfy consensus. We consider here the output of the
BFTCR phase in the case where there is a disagreement into two predecisions.
We speak of a disagreement on predecisions being finalized if it becomes a
disagreement on decisions (that is, on the output of the BFTCR phase). We

                                         19
will show in Theorem 4.2 that if m > k+t−n2    + t0 rational players commit to bait
instead of finalizing the disagreement on predecisions, then the Trap protocol
still satisfies consensus. For this purpose, we define m(k, t) = ⌊ k+t−n 2  + t0 ⌋ + 1
(i.e., the smallest natural value that satisfies m > k+t−n2   +  t 0 ). Then, we first
show in Lemma 4.1 that if m(k, t) rational players bait, then the only possible
outcome is to resolve a disagreement on predecisions.
Lemma 4.1. Let n players play the associated game of the Trap protocol #»           σ,
out of which k can be rational and t Byzantine, with n > 2(k + t). Suppose
a run in which a coalition causes a disagreement on predecisions, and consider
the start of the BFTCR phase. Then, if m(k, t) rational players of the coalition
commit to bait then the only possible outcome is to pay the reward and resolve
the disagreement on predecisions.
Proof. First, we show that m(k, t) deviating players committing to bait suffices
to prevent the disagreement on predecisions to be finalized in a disagreement
on decisions. This is analogous to the proof of Lemma 3.1. Then, we show
that if m(k, t) players commit to bait, then the BFTCR phase safely terminates
resolving predecisions, with all correct players that start the winner consensus
terminating it and agreeing. Finally, we show that deviating players cannot
get the reward and also cause a disagreement, i.e., if one player terminates the
winner consensus then all correct players start it.
    Suppose two predecisions vA , vB that two partitions of players not in the
coalition A and B predecided, such that A∩B = ∅, and |A|+|B|+k +t ≤ n. For
A to decide vA (resp. B to decide vB ), players in A (resp. B) must be able to
decide without hearing from players in B (resp. A). Therefore, |A|+k+t ≥ n−t0
and also |B| + k + t ≥ n − t0 to finalize the disagreement. We consider now
how many m rational players out of k must bait (i.e., must not contribute to
finalizing the disagreement) for a disagreement to necessarily fail. This value
must be such that |A| + (k − m) + t < n − t0 and same for B’s partition, which
solves to m > k+t−n2   + t0 (analogously to Lemma 3.1).
    Then, we recall that the BFTCR phase resolves predecisions, rewards and
punishes players if at least t0 +1 players have been exposed through PoFs. Thus,
every non-deviating player can ignore messages received from a set containing
at least t0 + 1 players. All non-deviating players eventually converge to the
same set of detected fraudsters [34], as all correct players broadcast the PoFs
they hear from and update their detected fraudsters accordingly. As such, let F
represent the set of detected fraudsters, then for all |F | ∈ [t0 + 1, k + t] it follows
that n′ /3 > k + t − |F | for n′ = n − |F |, and thus the winner consensus tolerates
deviations from the rest of rational and Byzantine players not yet detected.
    Finally, we show that if the reward is paid, then it is not possible to cause a
disagreement at decision level. We have shown in the previous paragraph that
all non-deviating players that execute the winner consensus terminate agreeing.
We must thus prove that if a correct player terminates the winner consensus,
then no correct player can terminate deciding a predecision without executing
the winner consensus. Since n′ /3 > k + t − |F |, the winner consensus terminates
with the participation of just 2n′ /3 players, of which at least 2n′ /3−(k +t−|F |)

                                          20
are correct. Since there are n − k − t correct players in total, if the winner
consensus terminates for some correct player, then there are at most c = n −
k − t − (2n′ /3 − (k + t − |F |)) = (n − |F |)/3 correct players that have neither
learned about the disagreement nor executed the winner consensus yet. Thus,
for these remaining correct players to not be able to decide without executing
the winner consensus, it is necessary that c + t + k < n − t0 ⇐⇒ t + k < n/2.
    Hence, as long as at least m(k, t) = ⌊ k+t−n
                                               2   + t0 ⌋ + 1 rational players play
the baiting strategy, the only possible outcome is for one of them to get the
reward, and to resolve the disagreement on predecisions.


Theorem 4.2 (baiting-agreement). Let n players play the associated game of
the Trap protocol #» σ , of which k can be rational and t Byzantine, with n >
2(k +t). Suppose that m(k, t) = ⌊ k+t−n
                                    2    +t0 ⌋+1 rational players in the coalition
play the baiting strategy committing to bait if they participate in a disagreement
on predecisions. Then the Trap protocol solves rational agreement.
Proof. The proof of t0 -immunity follows from the proof of Polygraph’s t0 -
immunity and the fact that the additional BFTCR phase consists of two Byzan-
tine fault tolerant reliable broadcasts and one additional broadcast per player,
terminating each of them if n − t0 players follow the protocol.
    For ǫ-(k, t)-robustness, it is clear that if there is no disagreement on pre-
decisions, then rational and correct players are more than n − t0 and thus the
protocol terminates and guarantees validity and agreement. If there is instead
a disagreement on predecisions then, as long as m(k, t) players commit to bait,
by Lemma 4.1 the only outcome is to pay the reward and resolve the disagree-
ment.
    We show in Theorem 4.2 that, provided m(k, t) rational players commit to
bait if there is a disagreement in the predecisions, the Trap protocol solves the
rational agreement problem. We only have left to prove for which values of L
and R we can guarantee that the strategy to bait the coalition strictly dominates
that of terminating a disagreement for at least m(k, t) rational players in the
coalition. We do this in Section 4.3.

4.3    Financial component: deposits & reward
In this section, we focus on the key idea of this paper: what are the values
required for a deposit per player and a reward to players for baiting the coalition
that make a strong baiting strategy. In particular, and derived from the BFTCR
algorithm of Section 4.1, we focus on a baiting strategy that at least m(k, t)
rational players will play in Theorem 4.4. Then, we prove that the proposed
Trap protocol implements rational agreement and is ǫ-(k, t)-robust for n >
3
2 k + 3t and n > 2(k + t) in Theorem 4.5 and Corollary 4.3.
    We show in Theorem 4.4 which values of L and R make the disagreeing
strategy a strictly dominated strategy by the baiting strategy for at least m(k, t)
rational players (i.e., a dominated strategy even if player i already knows that


                                        21
m(k, t)−1 other players are also baiting at the time that i has to decide whether
to bait or not). In other words, we show in Theorem 4.4 under which values of
R and L such strategy #» η is a strong (k, t, m(k, t))-baiting strategy that satisfies
baiting-dominance and lossfree-reward.
    The result of Theorem 4.4 is the key part of the Trap protocol for two
reasons. First, because it shows that the first m − 1 baiters do not even prevent
a disagremeent from taking place, and thus if the rest of t+ k − (m− 1) colluding
players want to finalize the disagreement, they can. Second, because it shows
that if m − 1 players commit to bait, then the remaining t + k − (m − 1)
must take the decision on whether to commit to bait or not independently of
what the rest of them are doing. Thus, this is analogous to a reduction from
the extensive-form game into a normal-form game for this case, played by the
t + k − (m − 1) remaining rational and Byzantine players, in which all rational
players’ dominating strategy is to bait the coalition, regardless of what the
rest are doing. Without this proof, Byzantine players in the coalition could
threat rational players to also bait if they see them baiting, creating a deterrent
and changing the equilibrium of rational players into colluding to finalize the
disagreement.
    We first show in Lemma 4.3 that the Trap protocol guarantees that no
player can decide to join the baiting strategy #»  η and become a valid candidate
for the winner consensus after learning that another m(k, t) players played #»      η:
they must take that decision before they know whether m(k, t) other players
will play #»
          η or not.
Lemma 4.3. Let n players play the associated game of the Trap protocol #»       σ,
out of which k can be rational and t Byzantine, with n > 32 k+3t and n > 2(k+t).
Suppose a run in which a coalition causes a disagreement on predecisions and
players start the BFTCR phase. Then, deviating player i in the coalition cannot
become a valid candidate for the reward unless it commits to bait before it learns
that m(k, t) other players commit to bait.
Proof. We show that if m(k, t) rational players in the coalition play the baiting
strategy, becoming valid candidates to win the reward, then the remaining k+t−
m(k, t) cannot obtain valid PoBs to become candidates of the winner consensus
after learning that m(k, t) players become candidates. Given that the non-
baiting members of the coalition are trying to finalize a disagreement, they will
still split non-deviating players into two partitions A and B for the BFTCR
protocol. Hence, we look at how many rational players must take part in both
partitions of the BFTCR protocol. Notice that |A|+|B|+t+k ≤ n, |A|+k +t ≥
n − t0 and |B| + k + t ≥ n − t0 . Thus, analogous to how we calculate m in
Lemma 3.1, we have that c ≥ (n − t0 ) − n−t−k 2    is the number of members of
the coalition that must participate in a partition for it to terminate deciding a
predecision, with A ∩ B = ∅, as their predecisions differ. We are interested in
calculating c−t, the minimum number of rational players out of these c members
of the coalition, this is why we include as many Byzantine players as possible.
Notice also that we want to see how many rational players must take part in both


                                         22
partitions, meaning that we are interested in c − t − k2 = (n − t0 ) − n+t
                                                                         2 ≥ m(k, t)
for n > 32 k + 3t.
    Hence, both partitions will include at least m(k, t) repeated rational players.
What is left to prove is that if these m(k, t) players commit to bait, then by the
time they reveal their commitment, the remaining players cannot collude to try
and obtain PoBs to become valid candidates of the winner consensus too. Since
|A|+k+t ≥ n−t0 and |B|+k+t ≥ n−t0 , there are |D| ≥ 2(n−t0 )−2k−2t correct
players that delivered at least m(k, t) commitments to bait, for |D| ≤ |A| + |B|,
if these m(k, t) repeated rational players commit to bait. Notice that |D| ≥
t0 + 1 for n > 2(k + t). Then, each of the m(k, t) players can wait for n − t0
deliveries of the second reliable broadcast before revealing their commitment
by broadcasting their key without compromising termination. Thus, we must
calculate for which values of k and t the remaining players cannot obtain PoBs
to become valid candidates, that is, for which values of k and t other players
that did not bait yet cannot include the new commitment to bait in t0 + 1 valid
second reliable broadcasts. Since the remaining set of correct players C such
that |C| = n − t − k − |D| are |C| ≥ n − k − t − (2(n − t0 ) − 2k − 2t), we calculate
for which values of k and t we have |C| + k + t − t0 ≤ t0 , which results in
n > 2(k + t). This means that the m(k, t) baiters can be sure that no deviating
player can commit to bait and win the reward without being a valid candidate
for the winner consensus.
   We use the result from Lemma 4.3 to prove lossfree-reward and baiting-
dominance in Theorem 4.4.
Theorem 4.4 (lossfree-reward and baiting-dominance). Let #»       σ be the Trap
protocol, executed by n players of which exactly k are rational and t Byzantine,
for some values of k, t satisfying n > max( 23 k + 3t, 2(k + t)). Let #»  η be the
strategy in which m(k, t) rational players reveal PoFs of the coalition if there is
a disagreement on predecisions. Then, #» η is a strong baiting strategy if:
                                                                 m(k,t)
  1. each player is required to deposit L = d · G, with d > k(t0 −m(k,t)+1) , and

  2. the baiting reward R is such that R = t0 L.
Proof. Recall that the gain is split equally among all k rational players in the
coalition g = G/k. To guarantee lossfree-reward, the sum of losses from the
coalition must always be equal or greater than the reward given for the coalition
to always lose funds while failing to disagree, that is t0 L ≥ R ⇐⇒ L ≥ tR0 .
    As a result, the baiting strategy #»η must strictly dominate the strategy to
disagree for rational players, even if a rational player knows another m − 1
other rational players also play the same strategy #»η committing to bait. Since
the probability of winning the bait between m players is uniformly distributed
            1
p(m) = m        we have that the utility for a player to play the baiting strat-
egy knowing that another m(k, t) − 1 players are playing the same strategy
is p(m(k, t))R − q(m(k, t))L. If, instead, the player disagrees then the player’s
utility is Gk . As such, and since Lemma 4.3 shows that no rational player can


                                         23
become a valid candidate to win the reward after learning that m(k, t) other
players commit to bait, we obtain that #»  η strictly dominates the disagreeing
strategy if p(m(k, t))R − q(m(k, t))L > Gk and replacing R by t0 L, and L by dG
we obtain:

                                     −1                      m(k, t)
      d > k t0 p(m(k, t)) − q(m(k, t))     ⇔         d>                       .
                                                          k(t0 − m(k, t) + 1)

    As for the reward, t0 L ≥ R for the slashed deposits to always cover the
reward, and thus we set t0 L = dGt0 = R.
    Hence, m(k, t) will play the baiting strategy (baiting-dominance) of which
one will be rewarded, and the reward will be paid with the deposits of the
fraudsters (lossfree-reward).
    Notice that any two values L and R suffice if they satisfy p(m(k, t))R−q(m(k, t))L > Gk (1),
so that rational players prefer to bait than to disagree, and t0 L ≥ R (2), so that
the reward is always less than the slashed deposits.
    The key to these two equations lies in the trade-off between R and L, that
is: R must be sufficiently big compared to L so that players prefer to bait than
to disagree (Equation 1), but R must be sufficiently small compared to L so
that the slashed deposits can always pay for the reward (Equation 2).
    It is already possible to derive from Theorem 4.4 results for the number of
Byzantine players tolerated for (k − t, t)-robustness, given a deposit. That is,
suppose that #»  η only requires m(k, t) = 1 rational player to satisfy agreement,
and let L = d · G, then every coalition of size at least t0 + 1 players has at least
k ≥ t0 + 1 − t rational players, and thus the maximum amount of Byzantine
players tolerated for ǫ-(k − t, t)-robustness is t < t0 + 1 − t01d . For example, let
us set the deposit L = dG to d = n1 , i.e., the total deposit is D = L · n = G, and
n = 100, it follows that the Trap protocol is ǫ-(k − t, t)-robust and t ≤ 30. If
               1
instead d = 3n    , then t ≤ 24.
    Finally, we gather all results together in Theorem 4.5, and Corollary 4.3.
Theorem 4.5. Let #»   σ be the Trap protocol, executed by n players of which k are
rational and t Byzantine, for all values k, t satisfying n > max( 23 k +3t, 2(k +t)).
Let #»
     η be the strategy in which m(k, t) rational players reveal PoFs of the coalition
if there is a disagreement on predecisions. Then, #»   η is a strong (k, t, m(k, t))-
baiting strategy if:
                                                                              m(k,t)    
  1. Each player is required to deposit L = d·G, where d > max(k,t)      k(t0 −m(k,t)+1) ,
     and
  2. the baiting reward is R = t0 L.

Proof. Theorem 4.2 uses the proof of baiting-agreement from Lemma 4.1 to
show that if m(k, t) play the baiting strategy in the event of a disagreement



                                         24
on predecisions, then the Trap protocol solves the rational agreement prob-
lem. Theorem 4.4 shows that m(k, t) will play the baiting strategy (baiting-
dominance) of which one will be rewarded, and the reward will be paid with the
deposits of the fraudsters (lossfree-reward).
   Finally, we consider all possible values of k and t analogously to Theo-
rem 4.4, deriving a value of  d that holds for all possible values of k and t:
                   m(k,t)
d > max(k,t) k(t0 −m(k,t)+1)  .

    Notice that the greater the size of the coalition, the greater d must be in order
for the protocol to be ǫ-(k, t)-robust. However, for n > 23 k + 3t and n > 2(k + t),
since for every two rational players that join the coalition one Byzantine must
leave, the coalition that maximizes the total deposit D = Ln = dGn is a coalition
of k = 1 rational player and t = t0 Byzantine players, and that means d > ⌈ n 1⌉−1 .
                                                                                3
Corollary 4.3 shows such particular robustness.
Corollary. Let #»σ be the Trap protocol. Then #»
                                               σ is ǫ-(k, t)-robust for the ra-
tional agreement problem for n > 32 k + 3t and n > 2(k + t) if the following
predicates hold:
  1. Each player is required to deposit L = d · G + δ, where d = ⌈ n 1⌉−1 and
                                                                   3
     δ > 0, and
  2. the baiting reward is R = t0 L.

   Thus, there are two possible outcomes for the Trap protocol:
   • if the coalition is made by so many rational players that deviating does
not compensate the risk of losing their deposits, then the Trap protocol will
provide agreement at predecision level without paying a reward R, or
    • if the coalition has enough Byzantine players to make the deviation into
two predecisions profitable, then enough m(k, t) rational players in the coalition
will bait so that the disagreement on predecisions can safely be resolved and
decided, and one rational player among the baiters will receive a reward R,
paid entirely by the deposits of the rest of the provably fraudulent players.
In both scenarios, the Trap protocol implements   rational agreement, being
ǫ-(k, t)-robust for n > max 32 k + 3t, 2(k + t) .
                                               




                                         25
Algorithm 1 BFT commit-reveal protocol for (correct) player i
 1: State:
 2:   enc_msgs, list of delivered encrypted messages from the first group reliable
 3:        broadcasts, initially ∅
 4:   list_enc_msgs, list of delivered encrypted messages by other players from the
 5:        first group of reliable broadcasts, initially ∅
 6:   decrypted_msgs, list of delivered decrypted messages from the first group of
 7:        reliable broadcasts, initially ∅
 8:   {RB 1j }n
              j=0 , the first group of reliable broadcasts where j is the source
 9:   {RB 2j }n
              j=0 , the second group of reliable broadcasts where j is the source
10:   hashes, a dictionary where keys are hashes and values are integers, initially it
11:         does not contain any key or value
12:   local _hash, local hash of the predecided value, according to this player
13:   POF _received, boolean, initially False
14:   i, i_msg, i_key, i_enc_msg, player’s id, message, key, and encrypted message

15: RB 1i .start(i_enc_msg)                                  start first group of reliable broadcasts

16: Upon RB-delivering enc_msg from reliable broadcast RB 1j :
17:  enc_msgs[j] ← enc_msgs
18:  if (size(enc_msgs) ≥ n − t0 ) then
19:     RB 2i .start(enc_msgs)

20: Upon RB-delivering enc_msgsj from reliable broadcast RBj2 :
21:  list_enc_msgs[j] ← enc_msgsj
22:  if (size(list_enc_msgs) ≥ n − t0 and size(enc_msgs) ≥ n − t0 ) then
23:     broadcast(i_key, i)           reveal i’s commitment by broadcasting decryption key


24: Upon delivering key from j and RB-delivering from RB 1j and RB 2j :
25:  broadcast(key, j )
26:  decrypted_msgs[j ] ← decrypt(enc_msgs, key)                                           decrypt it
27:  if (decrypted_msgs[j ].type = HASH) then                      if it is the hash of a predecision
28:     hash ← decrypted_msgs[j ].get_hash()
29:     hashes [hash] += 1                                                              add to count
30:     if (hashes [hash] ≥ n − t0 and local _hash = hashes [hash]) then
31:        decide(hash)                    if count for this hash reaches threshold, then decide it
32:  else if (decrypted_msgs[j ].type = POFS) then                             if instead list of PoFs
33:     PoFs ← decrypted_msgs[j ].get_PoFs()
34:     if (verify(PoFs )) then list_PoFs[j ] ← PoFs                            verify PoFs are valid
35:        POF _received ← True
36:  if (POF _received) then
37:     msgs_filtered ← keys(decrypted_msgs) \ keys(PoFs)
38:     if (size(msgs_filtered ) ≥ t0 + 1) then                                    winner consensus
39:        baiter , frauds, predec1 predec2 ← select_winner(list_enc_msgs, lPoFs )
40:        punish(frauds ); reward(baiter ); resolve(predec1 , predec2 )




                                                 26
5    Conclusion
In this paper, we showed that rational players help reduce the dependability on
correct players to solve the Byzantine consensus problem. To this end, we intro-
duced a necessary and sufficient baiting strategy to solve the rational agreement
problem—a variant of the Byzantine consensus problem that also tolerate ratio-
nal players—under partial synchrony. Based on this strategy, we also proposed
Trap, a novel Byzantine consensus protocol among n > max 32 k + 3t, 2(k + t)
players, where k players are rational and t are Byzantine. This protocol tol-
erates the coordinated deviations of up to k rational players and t Byzan-
tine players, solving consensus in the presence of less than 2n/3 correct play-
ers. As future work, it would be interesting to explore whether our bound
n > max 32 k + 3t, 2(k + t) is tight, and to consider the impact of non-negligible
costs of computation and communication. We are currently working at reducing
our bound to n > 32 k + 3t with a novel VSS scheme.


References
 [1] I. Abraham, D. Dolev, I. Geffner, and J. Y. Halpern. Implementing me-
     diators with asynchronous cheap talk. In Proceedings of the 2019 ACM
     Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, pages 501–510, 2019.
 [2] I. Abraham, D. Dolev, R. Gonen, and J. Halpern. Distributed computing
     meets game theory: Robust mechanisms for rational secret sharing and
     multiparty computation. In Proceedings of the 25th Annual ACM Sympo-
     sium on Principles of Distributed Computing, pages 53–62, 2006.
 [3] I. Abraham, D. Dolev, and J. Y. Halpern. Distributed protocols for leader
     election: A game-theoretic perspective. ACM Transactions on Economics
     and Computation, 7(1), 2019.
 [4] I. Abraham, P. Jovanovic, M. Maller, S. Meiklejohn, G. Stern, and
     A. Tomescu. Reaching consensus for asynchronous distributed key gen-
     eration. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Symposium on Principles of Dis-
     tributed Computing, pages 363–373, 2021.
 [5] Y. Afek, Y. Ginzberg, S. Landau Feibish, and M. Sulamy. Distributed
     computing building blocks for rational agents. In Proceedings of the 2014
     ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing, pages 406–415,
     2014.
 [6] A. S. Aiyer, L. Alvisi, A. Clement, M. Dahlin, J.-P. Martin, and C. Porth.
     Bar fault tolerance for cooperative services. SIGOPS Operating Systems
     Review, 39(5):45–58, 2005.
 [7] Y. Amoussou-Guenou, B. Biais, M. Potop-Butucaru, F. Paris, and
     S. Tucci-Piergiovanni. Rational vs Byzantine Players in Consensus-based


                                       27
    Blockchains. Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Au-
    tonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems, pages 43–51, 2020.
 [8] R. J. Aumarm. Acceptable points in general cooperative n-person games.
     Contributions to the Theory of Games (AM-40), Volume IV, 40:287, 2016.
 [9] X. Bei, W. Chen, and J. Zhang. Distributed consensus resilient to both
     crash failures and strategic manipulations. Technical Report 1203.4324,
     arXiv, 2012.
[10] E. Ben-Porath. Cheap talk in games with incomplete information. Journal
     of Economic Theory, 108(1):45–71, 2003.
[11] L. Breidenbach, P. Daian, F. Tramèr, and A. Juels. Enter the hydra:
     Towards principled bug bounties and exploit-resistant smart contracts. In
     27th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 18), pages 1335–
     1352, 2018.
[12] P. Civit, S. Gilbert, and V. Gramoli. Brief Announcement: Polygraph:
     Accountable Byzantine Agreement. In Proceedings of the 34th International
     Symposium on Distributed Computing (DISC), volume 179 of LIPIcs, pages
     45:1–45:3, 2020.
[13] P. Civit, S. Gilbert, and V. Gramoli. Polygraph: Accountable byzantine
     agreement. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE 41st International Conference
     on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS), pages 403–413, 2021.
[14] P. Civit, S. Gilbert, V. Gramoli, R. Guerraoui, and J. Komatovic. As
     easy as abc: Optimal (a)ccountable (b)yzantine (c)onsensus is easy! In
     Proceedings of the 36th International Parallel and Distributed Processing
     Symposium (IPDPS), 2022.
[15] T. Crain, V. Gramoli, M. Larrea, and M. Raynal. Dbft: Efficient leaderless
     byzantine consensus and its application to blockchains. In 2018 IEEE 17th
     International Symposium on Network Computing and Applications (NCA),
     pages 1–8, 2018.
[16] V. Dani, M. Movahedi, Y. Rodriguez, and J. Saia. Scalable rational secret
     sharing. In Proceedings of the 30th Annual ACM Symposium on Principles
     of Distributed Computing, pages 187–196, 2011.
[17] S. Das, V. Krishnan, I. M. Isaac, and L. Ren. Spurt: Scalable distributed
     randomness beacon with transparent setup. Technical Report 2021/100,
     Cryptology ePrint, 2021.
[18] C. Dong, Y. Wang, A. Aldweesh, P. McCorry, and A. van Moorsel. Betrayal,
     distrust, and rationality: Smart counter-collusion contracts for verifiable
     cloud computing. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
     Computer and Communications Security, pages 211–227, 2017.


                                      28
[19] C. Dwork, N. Lynch, and L. Stockmeyer. Consensus in the presence of
     partial synchrony. Journal of the ACM (JACM), 35(2):288–323, 1988.
[20] Z. Ebrahimi, B. Routledge, and A. Zetlin-Jones. Getting blockchain incen-
     tives right. Technical report, Carnegie Mellon University, 2019.
[21] M. J. Fischer, N. A. Lynch, and M. S. Paterson. Impossibility of distributed
     consensus with one faulty process. Journal of the ACM (JACM), 32(2):374–
     382, 1985.
[22] G. Fuchsbauer, J. Katz, and D. Naccache. Efficient rational secret sharing
     in standard communication networks. In Proceedings of the 7th Interna-
     tional Conference on Theory of Cryptography (TCC), pages 419–436, 2010.
[23] O. Goldreich, S. Micali, and A. Wigderson. How to play any mental game.
     In Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, pages 307–328, 2019.
[24] A. Groce, J. Katz, A. Thiruvengadam, and V. Zikas. Byzantine agreement
     with a rational adversary. In Automata, Languages, and Programming,
     pages 561–572, 2012.
[25] A. Groce, J. Katz, A. Thiruvengadam, and V. Zikas. Byzantine agreement
     with a rational adversary. In Automata, Languages, and Programming,
     pages 561–572, 2012.
[26] J. Y. Halpern and X. Vilaça.      Rational consensus.    Technical Report
     2005.10141, arXiv, 2020.
[27] I. Harel, A. Jacob-Fanani, M. Sulamy, and Y. Afek. Consensus in Equi-
     librium: Can One Against All Decide Fairly? In 23rd International Con-
     ference on Principles of Distributed Systems, volume 153 of LIPIcs, pages
     20:1–20:17, 2020.
[28] D. Harz, L. Gudgeon, A. Gervais, and W. J. Knottenbelt. Balance: Dy-
     namic adjustment of cryptocurrency deposits. In Proceedings of the 2019
     ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
     pages 1485–1502, 2019.
[29] Y. Heller. Minority-proof cheap-talk protocol (extended version). PhD the-
     sis, Citeseer, 2005.
[30] E. Kokoris Kogias, D. Malkhi, and A. Spiegelman. Asynchronous dis-
     tributed key generation for computationally-secure randomness, consensus,
     and threshold signatures. 2020.
[31] A. Kosba, A. Miller, E. Shi, Z. Wen, and C. Papamanthou. Hawk: The
     blockchain model of cryptography and privacy-preserving smart contracts.
     In 2016 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 839–858,
     2016.



                                       29
[32] L. Lamport, R. Shostak, and M. Pease. The Byzantine generals problem.
     ACM Transaction on Programming Languages and Systems, 4(3):382–401,
     1982.
[33] A. Lysyanskaya and N. Triandopoulos. Rationality and adversarial behavior
     in multi-party computation. In Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2006,
     pages 180–197, 2006.
[34] A. Ranchal-Pedrosa and V. Gramoli. Zlb: A blockchain to tolerate collud-
     ing majorities. Technical Report 2007.10541, arXiv, 2021.
[35] P. Sheng, G. Wang, K. Nayak, S. Kannan, and P. Viswanath. Bft pro-
     tocol forensics. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
     Computer and Communications Security, pages 1722–1743, 2021.
[36] A. Singh, P. Fonseca, P. Kuznetsov, R. Rodrigues, and P. Maniatis. Zeno:
     Eventually consistent byzantine-fault tolerance. In Proceedings of the 6th
     USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation,
     pages 169–184, 2009.

[37] E. Syta, P. Jovanovic, E. K. Kogias, N. Gailly, L. Gasser, I. Khoffi, M. J.
     Fischer, and B. Ford. Scalable bias-resistant distributed randomness. In
     2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 444–460, 2017.
[38] X. Vilaça, O. Denysyuk, and L. Rodrigues. Asynchrony and collusion in
     the n-party bar transfer problem. In Structural Information and Commu-
     nication Complexity, pages 183–194, 2012.
[39] X. Vilaça, J. a. Leitão, and L. Rodrigues. N-party bar transfer: Motivation,
     definition, and challenges. In Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop
     on Theoretical Aspects of Dynamic Distributed Systems, 2011.




                                       30
A     Extended Example Figure
Figure 3 depicts a slightly extended version of the execution example of Figure 1.
Similarly to Figure 1, the execution starts with k + t Byzantine and rational
players causing a disagreement on predecisions. However, now we detail further
how the m baiters prevent termination of the BFTCR protocol. In particular,
by not committing to a value in the first reliable broadcast of BFTCR, the m
baiters can prevent players in A and in B from terminating in any of the two
partitions. Thus, the m baiting players wait till they receive certificates from
players in A and in B in order to construct PoFs. Then, they wait till they
deliver enough values from the second group reliable broadcasts from players in
partitions A and B that guarantee that no other Byzantine or rational player
can become a valid candidate once they reveal that they are baiting (as we
showed in the proof of Lemma 4.3). At this point, the m players reveal their
PoFs by sending the decryption key to their commitment. Then, players in A
and B can resolve their disagreement on predecisions, choose a winner of the
reward from among the m valid candidates at random, and punish the rest of
deviating players.




                                       31
                       Byzantines          k rationals, of which m bait                     A ∩ B = ∅, partition of correct

                                 t             k−m               m                                A                          B
  ➀ t + k lead A and B to
disagreement on predecisions                                                                      ➀ predec(vA )              ➀ predec(vB )

➁ A and B cannot terminate                                                                   )
                                                                                           vA
without hearing from at least                                                          te (        ➁                         ➁
                                                                                  fica
     1 of the m baiters                                                        rt
                                                                                 i
                                                                                              )
                                                                            ce       ate (v B
                                                                             rti c
                                                                                fi
 ➂ m baiters wait to receive                                     ➂        ce
certificates to construct PoFs                                                                    RB 1(en
                                                                                                         c _pofs
                                                                     RB 1
                                                                         (enc                                        A B))
                                                                                                                   (v ,v
                                                                                _po
                                                                                   fs
   ➃ m baiters commit to                                                             (v            ➃                         ➃
                                                                                           B))
                                                                                       A ,v
     the encrypted PoFs                                                           2
                                                                                RB A

➄ m baiters wait to confirm                                          ➄             RB B
                                                                                        2

  they are valid candidates                                                                             reveal key
                                                                           reveal
                                                                                    key      ➅                               ➅
                                     ➅ partitions of correct players A and B (i) discover disagreement,
                                     (ii) select a winner of the reward at random out of the m baiters,
                                                (iii) punish the rest of t + k − 1 deviants, and
                                     (iv) resolve the disagreement on predecisions to agree on decision


              Figure 3: Extended example execution of the Huntsman protocol. First, ➀ all t
              Byzantine and k rational players collude to cause a disagreement on the output
              of the accountable consensus protocol, resulting in A and B predeciding different
              outputs. Then, ➁ m of the k rational players decide to bait while executing the
              BFTCR protocol, preventing A and B from deciding their disagreeing predeci-
              sions. As such, ➂ the m baiters wait until they receive proof of the disagreement
              on predecisions, to then ➃ commit to the encrypted PoFs. Finally, ➄ once they
              deliver as many second reliable broadcast from A and B as possible confirming
              that correct players delivered their PoFs encrypted commitment, then ➅ the m
              baiters prove the disagreement revealing the proofs-of-fraud in the BFTCR pro-
              tocol. Hence, neither A nor B decide their conflicting predecisions, but instead
              reward one of the m baiters, punish the rest of t + k − 1 players responsible for
              the disagreement on predecisions, and resolve the disagreement, deciding one of
              vA or vB , or, depending on the application, merging both.




                                                            32
B     Discussion: paying a reward at no cost to non-
      deviants.
One might think that implementing a baiting strategy with a reward and de-
posits might not be enough: we need to discourage coalitions from actually play-
ing the baiting strategy, since the system would have to pay the reward R, and
thus the coalition can effectively steal some funds from the system. However, if
the system can use the deposited amount L from at least t0 certified fraudsters
in the coalition to pay for the baiting reward R, then the system does not lose
any funds (lossfree-reward), while obtaining agreement (baiting-agreement).
    Furthermore, notice that if the coalition consists entirely of rational players
then they do not actually play this strong baiting strategy since, by the definition
of strong baiting strategy, they all individually lose more than they can gain
from deviating. Even if the presence of Byzantine players leads to a baiter being
paid, agreement will still be guaranteed at no cost to non-deviating players.
This leaves the open question of how likely it is that Byzantine players with
unexpected utilities but possibly with the goal to break the system would be
interested in giving their funds for free to rational players, if it does not cause
some damage on non-deviating players or on the system itself. In other words,
with a more refined, realistic modelling of Byzantine players, it is very likely
that the very correctness of the Trap protocol will be enough of a deterrent
from deviating, which would lead to agreement directly at the predecision level.




                                        33
